=== Page 1 ===
Resource
The human zinc-binding cysteine proteome
Graphical abstract
Highlights
d The human zinc-binding cysteine proteome (ZnCPT)
d ZnCPT deﬁnes general physicochemical and structural
properties of zinc binding
d ZnCPT enables systematic investigation of zinc-regulated
cellular processes
d ZnCPT identiﬁes glutathione reductase (GSR) as zinc-
targetable cancer dependency
Authors
Nils Burger, Melanie J. Mittenbu ¨ hler,
Haopeng Xiao, ..., Sirano Dhe-Paganon,
Jianwei Che, Edward T. Chouchani
Correspondence
edwardt_chouchani@dfci.harvard.edu
In brief
A deep mapping of the human zinc-
binding cysteine proteome (ZnCPT)
deﬁnes thousands of zinc-binding protein
cysteines across major domains of
biology and discovers glutathione
reductase as zinc-targetable cancer
vulnerability.
Burger et al., 2025, Cell 188, 832–850
February 6, 2025 ª 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2024.11.025 ll


=== Page 2 ===
Resource
The human zinc-binding cysteine proteome
Nils Burger,1,2 Melanie J. Mittenbu ¨ hler,1,2 Haopeng Xiao,1,2 Sanghee Shin,1,2 Shelley M. Wei, 1 Erik K. Henze, 1,2
Sebastian Schindler,1 Sepideh Mehravar,3 David M. Wood, 1,2 Jonathan J. Petrocelli, 1,2 Yizhi Sun,1,2
Hans-Georg Sprenger,1,2 Pedro Latorre-Muro,1,2 Amanda L. Smythers, 1,2 Luiz H.M. Bozi, 1,2 Narek Darabedian,1,2
Yingde Zhu,1 Hyuk-Soo Seo,4,5 Sirano Dhe-Paganon,4,5 Jianwei Che,1,5 and Edward T. Chouchani 1,2,6,7,*
1Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02215, USA
2Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA
3Medically Associated Science and Technology (MAST) Program, Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA
4Chemical Biology Program, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02215, USA
5Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA
6Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, MD 20815, USA
7Lead contact
*Correspondence: edwardt_chouchani@dfci.harvard.edu
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2024.11.025
SUMMARY
Zinc is an essential micronutrient that regulates a wide range of physiological processes, most often through
zinc binding to protein cysteine residues. Despite being critical for modulation of protein function, the
cysteine sites in the majority of the human proteome that are subject to zinc binding remain undeﬁned.
Here, we develop ZnCPT, a deep and quantitative mapping of the zinc-binding cysteine proteome. We deﬁne
6,173 zinc-binding cysteines, uncovering protein families across major domains of biology that are subject to
constitutive or inducible zinc binding. ZnCPT enables systematic discovery of zinc-regulated structural,
enzymatic, and allosteric functional domains. On this basis, we identify 52 cancer genetic dependencies sub-
ject to zinc binding and nominate malignancies sensitive to zinc-induced cytotoxicity. We discover a mech-
anism of zinc regulation over glutathione reductase (GSR), which drives cell death in GSR-dependent lung
cancers. We provide ZnCPT as a resource for understanding mechanisms of zinc regulation of protein
function.
INTRODUCTION
Metal ions are essential micronutrients critical for all aspects of
cellular biology. The zinc ion (Zn2+) is among the most widely em-
ployed metal co-factors in the cell, and most cellular zinc is
bound to proteins.
1,2 Zinc binds to proteins as a structural
component, to act as a catalyst, or to otherwise regulate target
function
1,3 (Figure 1A). These interactions are thought to be prev-
alent, with upward of 10% of the human proteome predicted to
bind zinc.
4,5 Within a cell, zinc concentrations are tightly regu-
lated by zinc transporters and storage and carrier proteins. Over-
all, the total cellular zinc concentration is estimated to be 200–
300 mM, mostly existing as protein-bound zinc. 1,2,6 In contrast,
the concentration of free (labile) intracellular zinc is tightly
controlled at high picomolar to low nanomolar levels, with varia-
tions across subcellular locations and the potential for transient
elevation.
6–16 To this end, cells contain a substantial zinc buff-
ering capacity, through a surplus of non-occupied high-afﬁnity
zinc-binding sites and by concerted transport and sequestration
of zinc in organelles.
2,6,10,13,17–19 Notably, metallothionines or
small-molecule ligands, such as metabolites, may drive dynamic
zinc binding and transfer across the proteome. 1,20–23
Despite the importance of zinc regulation over biological pro-
cesses, there is a dearth of information regarding the speciﬁc
protein interactions with zinc that underlie this activity. To date,
zinc-binding sites on proteins were identiﬁed using biophysical
analyses of individual targets and predictions via conserved
sequence features of known zinc-binding proteins.
4,5,27 Compre-
hensive proteome-wide analysis of zinc binding to proteins is
lacking because of technical challenges due to the non-covalent
nature of coordination bonds between protein residues and zinc.
Zinc binding to proteins is facilitated through chelation by multi-
ple amino acids, with cysteine being the most common zinc-li-
ganding residue
27 (Figure S1A).
Herein, we develop a cysteine derivatization and enrichment
method coupled with multiplexed proteomics to provide a quan-
titative and thorough landscape of the zinc-liganding cysteine
proteome. This zinc-binding cysteine proteome dataset (ZnCPT)
quantiﬁes the zinc-binding status across over 58,000 cysteine
sites in the human proteome. The zinc-binding state of most of
these sites had not previously been determined, so this land-
scape represents by far the deepest examination of the zinc-
binding cysteine proteome.
This compendium allows us to establish and validate distinct
zinc-binding proteins that underlie major aspects of cell biology.
From this dataset, we identify structural features differentiating
protein cysteines that facilitate constitutive or inducible zinc
binding and identify distinct zinc-binding subpopulations of
ll
OPEN ACCESS
832 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 ª 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

=== Page 3 ===
A
CD
E
B
(legend on next page)
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 833
Resource

=== Page 4 ===
the cysteine proteome. In doing so, we identify zinc-regulated
structural, enzymatic, and allosteric functional domains on can-
cer dependencies to nominate malignancies sensitive to zinc-
induced cytotoxicity. We discover a mechanism of zinc-medi-
ated regulation of glutathione reductase (GSR), which drives
selective cell death in GSR-dependent lung cancer cells and tu-
mors in vivo. Together, these ﬁndings provide a deep analysis of
the zinc-binding human cysteine proteome, which can be ac-
cessed through an interactive web resource at https://zncpt-
chouchani-lab.dfci.harvard.edu.
RESULTS
CPTs provide deep coverage and quantiﬁcation of the
zinc-binding cysteine proteome
Zinc binding to proteins most typically involves coordination with
at least one cysteine thiolate
27,28 (Figure S1 A). Generally,
cysteine thiolate modiﬁcations can be assessed by cysteine
derivatization and quantiﬁcation approaches. 29 However, the
non-covalent nature of cysteine-zinc interactions requires deter-
mination of zinc binding to proteins under conditions that pre-
serve zinc coordination. We were inspired by recent mass spec-
trometry methodologies that determine zinc binding to protein
cysteines,
24,30 in particular the elegant strategy developed by
Pace and Weerapana, 24 which determines zinc binding under
native conditions. To date, these methods achieve low proteome
coverage (/C24900 sites
24), owing to the low abundance of cysteine
residues relative to other amino acids and a dearth of effective
enrichment strategies for cysteine-containing peptides.31 There-
fore, quantiﬁcation of zinc binding to cysteines across most of
the proteome has been a technical hurdle.
We recently developed an approach to quantify the extent of
reversible modiﬁcation of tens of thousands of cysteines across
the proteome in a single experiment.
29 This method relies on the
cysteine-reactive phosphate tag (CPT), a cysteine labeling
and enrichment reagent for quantitative proteomics. CPT facili-
tates >99% enrichment of cysteine-containing peptides, allow-
ing for deep quantitative mapping of the cysteine proteome.
Here, we devised a strategy combining CPT with tandem mass
tag (TMT)-multiplexed chemoproteomics
29,32 to quantify zinc
engagement with over 58,000 unique cysteines across the hu-
man proteome ( Figures 1B and 1C; Table S1).
We used HCT116 cells to capture a large proportion of the
human proteome, 33,34 as well as primary human hepatocytes
and primary human prostate epithelial cells, as these naturally
contain high levels of zinc.
35,36 This allowed for assessment of
zinc engagement with over 11,000 proteins ( Table S1 ). We
manipulated cell lysates to titrate zinc binding to proteins and
performed proteome-wide quantiﬁcation of zinc binding to pro-
tein cysteines ( Figures 1B, 1D, and S1B).
24
To deﬁne constitutively zinc-bound protein cysteines, we
mapped cysteine residues that become accessible to CPT modi-
ﬁcation following treatment with the zinc chelator N,N,N
0,N0-te-
trakis(2-pyridinylmethyl)-1,2-ethanediamine (TPEN; Figure 1 D).
In parallel, we determined constitutively metal-bound cysteines
by mapping those that become accessible to CPT modiﬁcation
following treatment with the metal chelator ethylenediaminete-
traacetic acid (EDTA; Figure 1 D). Finally, we determined cyste-
ines amenable to inducible zinc binding by deﬁning those that
are blocked from CPT labeling following treatment with ZnCl
2
(Figure 1 D). We sought to apply concentrations of ZnCl 2 to cell
lysates sufﬁcient to drive zinc binding to proteins, without
elevating free zinc above the pM-nM range observed in cells.
To do so, we titrated ZnCl
2 to HCT116 lysates and measured
free unliganded zinc with the high-afﬁnity ﬂuorescent sensor
FluoZin3.6 Treating cell lysates with 10 mM ZnCl 2 resulted in a
substantial proportion of FluoZin3 remaining unoccupied and a
free zinc concentration in the low nM range ( Figure S1C), which
is indicative of a large capacity within cell lysates to buffer free
zinc. The addition of at least 1 mM of ZnCl
2 was required to de-
tectably elevate free zinc levels above background, compared
with TPEN-treated controls. From this, we concluded that the
addition of 10 mM ZnCl 2 was appropriate to overcome the zinc
chelation capacity of cell lysates while elevating free zinc to
low nM concentrations.
Population characteristics of the zinc-binding proteome
Most cysteine sites mapped in our analyses have not been pre-
viously experimentally assessed for zinc binding. A major reason
for this is that the CPT method provides over an order of magni-
tude improvement in cysteine peptide enrichment, compared
with previous technologies
29 (Figure 1C). Of the entire detected
cysteine proteome (62,393), 58,886 unique cysteines were quan-
tiﬁed. Global quantiﬁcation of zinc binding to protein cysteines
was highly reproducible across biological replicates and
different cell types, with constitutive zinc and metal-binding pop-
ulations clustering closely and distinctly from control and induc-
ible zinc-binding populations ( Figures S1 D–S1K). This under-
scores the high reproducibility of our experimental strategy.
First, we curated the ZnCPT dataset to determine population
characteristics of the cysteine proteome that participates in (1)
constitutive zinc binding, (2) constitutive metal binding, and (3)
Figure 1. The ZnCPT dataset provides a quantitative map of the zinc-binding proteome
(A) Illustration of protein functions regulated by zinc binding.
(B) ZnCPT chemoproteomic workﬂow to determine zinc binding by cysteines from lysates of HCT116 cells, primary human hepatocytes, and primary human
prostate epithelial cells.
(C) Comparison of cysteine coverage of zinc-binding events using ZnCPT and a previous study
24 as a proportion of the theoretically quantiﬁable cysteine
proteome.25 Comparison of detected and quantiﬁed cysteine numbers across diverse cell lysates.
(D) Treatment strategies to determine the constitutive zinc-binding, constitutive metal-binding, and inducible zinc-binding cysteine proteome.
(E) The constitutive and inducible zinc binding cysteine proteome in HCT116, primary human hepatocyte, and prostate epithelial cell lysates, determined
by cysteine accessibility changes upon TPEN or ZnCl
2 treatment. HCT116: n = 6 (control-TPEN), 4 (TPEN), 4–14 (control-ZnCl 2), and 4–12 (ZnCl 2); hepatocytes:
n = 5; prostate cells: n = 3. Signiﬁcance: two-tailed Student’s t test (Benjamini-Hochberg 26 corrected).
See also Figure S1.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
834 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 5 ===
inducible zinc binding. Of the entire quantiﬁed cysteine prote-
ome (58,886), we identiﬁed 4,830 constitutively zinc-bound
and 6,419 constitutively metal-bound cysteines ( Figures 1 E
and S1J). Over 10% of quantiﬁed proteins contained at least
one constitutive zinc-binding cysteine, which aligns with esti-
mates of the proportion of zinc-binding proteins in the human
proteome.
4,5 In addition, we identiﬁed 1,742 cysteines that indu-
cibly bound zinc ( Figure 1E). As the mapped cysteine proteome
of HCT116 was by far the deepest and extensively overlapped
with the other cell types ( Figure S1 K), we focused subsequent
analyses on this dataset.
Notably, cysteine sites responding to TPEN showed a similar
response upon EDTA treatment, conﬁrming that zinc is the pre-
dominant protein-bound metal coordinated by cysteine residues
(Figure 2 A). In contrast, comparably few cysteines exhibited
increased accessibility upon EDTA but not TPEN treatment,
indicative of non-zinc metal-binding sites. Interestingly, most of
the cysteines amenable to inducible zinc binding represented a
completely distinct population of the cysteine proteome
(Figures 2B and S1L). These data suggest that distinct proximal
amino acid environments govern capacity for inducible and
constitutive zinc binding. The structural basis for this is investi-
gated in a later section. We also identiﬁed a distinct population
of cysteines that exhibited increased solvent accessibility upon
zinc addition, indicative of an indirect effect of zinc binding.
Possible explanations for these indirect changes include struc-
tural rearrangements caused by zinc binding to a different site
within the protein. Alternatively, structural rearrangements could
result from zinc-mediated action on a protein involved in a
shared protein complex. Because experiments were conducted
on relatively short timescales and cell lysates, proximal indirect
structural changes to the target proteins are the most likely
explanation for these data. The lack of apparent sequence fea-
tures, discussed in a later section, further supports indirect
structural alterations. The fact that many cysteines exhibited
such changes suggests that modulating zinc binding to proteins
can frequently cause structural alterations that could manifest as
altered solvent accessibility of cysteine residues. Although these
ﬁndings are indicative of direct or indirect effects of zinc on
respective proteins, the site of zinc binding could not be deter-
mined for these cases. Therefore, we did not attempt to further
investigate cysteines falling into this category. With this caveat
in mind, these data are provided in Table S1.
We next leveraged the depth of ZnCPT to generate popula-
tion-level analyses with subcellular resolution ( Figure 2 C).
37,38
The constitutive zinc-binding proteome was enriched with nu-
clear proteins, in line with a signiﬁcant overrepresentation of
DNA-binding proteins with characteristic zinc-ﬁnger domains.
Conversely, there was de-enrichment of cytoplasmic, Golgi,
mitochondrial, and plasma membrane proteins. Interestingly,
proteins inducibly bound by zinc were de-enriched in the nucleus
and instead comprised predominantly vesicular proteins and
proteins localized within the endosomal/lysosomal system and
the endoplasmic reticulum. Together, these data indicate that
a distinct population of proteins is targeted by inducible and
constitutive zinc binding. In total, 15.7% of all detected proteins
contained at least one cysteine residue that was constitutively
binding zinc, while fewer than 5% carried three or more highly
occupied sites (Figures 2D and S1M). For inducible zinc binding,
we observed that more than 5% of proteins contained at least
one cysteine that was binding zinc ( Figures 2D and S1M).
ZnCPT recapitulates the established zinc-binding
proteome
We next examined if ZnCPT recapitulated the historical evidence
for zinc-binding proteins in the literature. We ﬁrst selected the
ZincBind dataset,
27 a compendium of all available structures of
zinc-binding proteins, as the to-date, most comprehensive,
experimentally validated reference. Overall, 4,373 cysteines in hu-
man proteins are established in ZincBind ( Figure S2A), whereas
ZnCPT identiﬁed 3,698 total cysteines that displayed a signiﬁcant
increase in reactivity upon TPEN treatment (Figure S2A). Of all the
ZincBind cysteines we mapped in our analyses, we found that
46% (540 of 1,182) showed an increase in reactivity upon TPEN
treatment. Conversely, only/C244% (62 of 1,531) were recapitulated
by the ZnCPT inducible zinc-binding dataset (ZnCl2)( Figure S2A).
The lower overlap of the inducible zinc-binding dataset could be
attributable to the nature of ZincBind, which is biased toward
constitutive zinc binding in recombinant proteins. Another poten-
tial reason is that the removal of zinc from proteins may result in
structural rearrangements or aggregation of some proteins, which
may preclude their analysis by ZnCPT.
As ZincBind captures only a small proportion of the prote-
ome, we extended benchmarking to datasets that predict zinc
binding based on bioinformatic and sequence analyses. To
this end, we selected the Andreini et al.
5 and Passerini et al. 4
datasets, a large predictive compendium of zinc binding, as
well as annotations from UniProt.
38 ZnCPT mapped cysteines
covering /C2453% (TPEN dataset) and /C2460% (ZnCl2 dataset) of
proteins within these datasets ( Figures S2 B and S2C). Overall,
47%–50% (TPEN) and 34%–47% (ZnCl 2) of zinc-binding cyste-
ines in ZnCPT are proposed to bind zinc in these datasets.
Combining the three benchmark datasets (ZincBind, Andreini &
Passerini, and UniProt) captures 3,584 previously annotated
zinc-binding proteins in the literature ( Figure 2 E). Taken
together, 766 (56% TPEN) and 266 (51% ZnCl
2) of zinc-binding
proteins identiﬁed in ZnCPT have been previously annotated as
such, reproducing 41% (TPEN) and 13% (ZnCl
2) of known zinc
binders that were mapped in ZnCPT. Collectively, ZnCPT reca-
pitulates over 850 previously known or proposed zinc-binding
proteins, demonstrating the capacity for ZnCPT to identify
zinc-binding proteins.
We identiﬁed examples of known zinc-binding proteins that
ZnCPT classiﬁed as constitutively bound by zinc. One prominent
example is zinc-ﬁnger protein 1 (ZPR1), a regulator of growth fac-
tor signaling via receptor tyrosine kinases, cell proliferation, and
translation.
39–41 In crystal structures, ZPR1 contains two C4
zinc-ﬁnger domains (Figure 3A). We mapped six of these cysteine
residues as constitutive zinc binding that could not ligand addi-
tional exogenous zinc. Another example is the SUMO-activating
enzyme subunit 2 (SAE2), an E1 SUMO ligase that contains a
conserved structural C4 zinc-ﬁnger domain (Figure 3B). We quan-
tiﬁed constitutive zinc binding at these sites with no changes upon
zinc treatment while also detecting increased exposure of addi-
tional cysteines, including the active site Cys173, likely due to
zinc-chelation-induced structural unfolding.
42,43
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 835
Resource

=== Page 6 ===
A B
C D
E      
Figure 2. Characterization of the zinc- and metal-binding cysteine proteome (HCT116 lysate)
(A) Comparison of cysteine accessibility changes between the constitutive metal-binding (EDTA) and the constitutive zinc-binding (TPEN) proteomes.
(B) Comparison of cysteine accessibility changes between ZnCl 2 and TPEN treatment.
(C) Subcellular distribution and enrichment of the constitutive zinc-, constitutive metal-, and inducible zinc-binding proteomes. Enrichment: Fisher’s exact test:
log
2(OR, odds ratio) with adjusted p values (Benjamini-Hochberg 26) overlayed.
(D) Quantiﬁed cysteine residues per protein that are constitutive zinc (TPEN), constitutive metal (EDTA), or inducible zinc (ZnCl 2) binding. Cumulative proportion
indicated by black line.
(E) Benchmarking of the constitutive and inducible zinc-binding cysteine proteome (ZnCPT) against zinc-binding proteins annotated in the ZincBind,
27 Andreini
et al.,5 and Passerini et al. 4 datasets or annotated in UniProt (see Figure S2 for individual benchmarking).
See also Figure S2.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
836 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 7 ===
ZnCPT also identiﬁed examples of known non-zinc metal-
binding cysteines. For instance, the small GTPase RAN requires
Mg2+ to stabilize GDP/GTP binding. 46,47 The two cysteines of
RAN quantiﬁed by ZnCPT are occluded by this Mg 2+ ion and
the guanine nucleotide ( Figure 3C). EDTA, but not TPEN, signif-
icantly increased the accessibility of both cysteines, presumably
due to chelation of the Mg 2+ ion and the resulting destabilization
of nucleotide binding, leading to exposure of both cysteines (Fig-
ure 3C). From this, we concluded that ZnCPT correctly classiﬁes
known non-zinc metal-binding protein targets.
An example of inducible zinc binding is the metal regulatory
transcription factor 1 (MTF1), for which ZnCPT identiﬁed its six
zinc-ﬁnger domains also identiﬁed in AlphaFill
45-derived MTF1
structures (Figure 3D).48 Elevated zinc levels result in the dynamic
binding and stabilization of these MTF1 zinc-ﬁnger domains,49,50
facilitating its binding to metal response elements (MREs) and
driving the transcriptional response to elevated cellular zinc.
48
Generally, we found that under control conditions, many zinc-
inducible sites exhibited partial zinc occupancy. Elevating free
zinc to low nM levels in lysates through treatment with 10 mM
ZnCl2 further increased occupancy of these dynamic zinc-binding
sites (Figure 3E).
Structural and sequence features of the zinc-binding
proteome
ZnCPT comprised the identiﬁcation of thousands of previously
undescribed constitutive and inducible zinc-binding sites. Initially,
we examined protein domains subject to zinc binding by mapping
Protein Families Database (Pfam) domain annotations to ZnCPT.
This identiﬁed classic zinc-binding domains as highly enriched,
with C2H2-type zinc-ﬁnger domains dominating ( Figure 4 A).
Next, we interrogated primary sequence motifs ( ± 6p o s i t i o n so f
the quantiﬁed cysteine) to identify amino acid signatures of zinc
binding. Highly conserved elements were identiﬁed, including
vicinal cysteine doublets involved in zinc coordination and certain
proximal amino acids that may play important structural roles,
such as glycine (Figures 4Ba n dS3A). Notably, amino acid signa-
tures for inducible zinc-binding sites contained additional
unique features ( Figures 4 Ca n d S3B). For instance, prominent
enrichment of lysines potentially indicates the relevance of local
electrostatic interactions for zinc binding to cysteine thiolates,
whereas acidic residues could contribute to zinc coordination
and prevent cysteine oxidation. Interestingly, cysteines that ex-
hibited increased solvent accessibility in response to zinc dis-
played sequence features distinct from constitutive and inducible
MGEHSPDNNIIYFEAEEDELTPDDKMLRFVDKNGLVPSSSGTVYDRTTVLIEQDPGTLEDEDDDGQCGEHLPFLVGGEEGFHLIDHEAMSQGYVQHIISPDQIHLTINPGSTPMPRNIEGATLTLQSECPETKRKEVKR YQ C TFEG C PRTYSTAGNLRT HQKT HRGEYT FV CNQEG C GKAFLTSYSLRI HVRV HTKEKP FEC DVQG C EKAFNTLYRLKA HQRL HTGKT FN C ESEG C SKYFTTLSDLRK HIRT HTGEKP FR C DHDG C GKAFAASHHLKT HVRT HTGERP FFC PSNG C EKTFSTQYSLKSHMKG HDNKG HSYNALPQHNGSEDTNHSLCLSDLSLLSTDSELRENSSTTQGQDLSTISPAIIFESMFQNSDDTAIQEDPQQTASLTESFNGDAESVSDVPPSTGNSASLSLPLVLQPGLSEPPQPLLPASAPSAPPPAPSLGPGSQQAAFGNPPALLQPPEVPVPHSTQFAANHQEFLPHPQAPQPIVPGLSVVAGASASAAAVASAVAAPAPPQSTTEPLPAMVQTLPLGANSVLTNNPTITITPTPNTAILQSSLVMGEQNLQWILNGATSSPQNQEQIQQASKVEKVFFTTAVPVASSPGSSV QQIGLSVPVIIIKQEEACQCQCACRDSAKERASSRRKGCSSPPPPEPSPQAPDGPSLQLPAQTFSSAPVPGSSSSTLPSSCEQSRQAETPSDPQTETLSAMDVSEFLSLQSLDTPSNLIPIEALLQGEEEMGLTSSFSKMGEHSPDNNIIYFEAEEDELTPDDKMLRFVDKNGLVPSSSGTVYDRTTVLIEQDPGTLEDEDDDGQCGEHLPF LVGGEEGFHLIDHEAMSQGYVQHIISPDQIHLTINPGSTPMPRNIEGATLTLQSECPETKRKEVKRYQCTFEGCPRTYSTAGNLRTHQKTHRGEYTFVCNQEGCGKAFLTSYSLRIHVRVHTKEKPFECDVQGCEKAFNTLYRLKAHQRLHTGKTFNCESEGCSKYFTTLSDLRKHIRTHTGEKPFRCDHDGCGKAFAASHHLKTHVRTHTGERPFFCPSNGCEKTFSTQYSLKSHMKGHDNKGHSYNALPQHNGSEDTNHSLCLSDLSLLSTDSELRENSSTTQGQDLSTISPAIIFESMFQNSDDTAIQEDPQQTASLTESFNGDAESVSDVPPSTGNSASLSLPLVLQPGLSEPPQPLLPASAPSAPPPAPSLGPGSQQAAFGNPPALLQPPEVPVPHSTQFAANHQEFLPHPQAPQPIVPGLSVVAGASASAAAVASAVAAPAPPQSTTEPLPAMVQTLPLGANSVLTNNPTITITPTPNTAILQSSLVMGEQNLQWILNGATSSPQNQEQIQQASKVEKVFFTTAVPVASSPGSSVQQIGLSVPVIIIKQEEACQCQCACRDSAKERASSRRKGCSSPPPPEPSPQAPDGPSLQLPAQTFSSAPVPGSSSSTLPSSCEQSRQAETPSDPQTETLSAMDVSEFLSLQSLDTPSNLIPIEALLQGEEEMGLTSSFSK
ECPETKRKEVKR YQ C TFEG C PRTYSTAGNLRT HQKT HRGEYT FV C NQEG C GKAFLTSYSLRI HVRV HTKEKP FEC DVQG C EKAFNTLYRLKA HQRL HTGKT FN C ESEG C SKYFTTLSDLRK HIRT HTGEKP FR C DHDG C GKAFAASHHLKT HVRT HTGERP FFC PSNG C EKTFSTQYSLKSHMKG HDNKG HSYNALPQHNGSEDTNHSLCLS
PGAAVAPSPAPAPPPAPDHLFRPISAEDEEQQPTEIESL C MN C YC NGMTRLLLTKIPFFREIIVSSFS C EH C GWNNTEIQSAGRIQDQGVRYTLSVRALEDMNREVVKTDSAATRIPELDFEIPAFSQKGALTTVEGLITRAISGLEQDQPARRANKDATAERIDEFIVKLKELKQVASPFTLIIDDPSGNSFVENPHAPQKDDALVITHYNRTRQQEEMLGLQEEAPAEKPEEEDLRNEVLQFSTN C PEC NAPAQTNMKLVQIPHFKEVIIMATN C EN C GHRTNEVKSGGAVEPLGTRITLHITDASDMTRDLLKSETCSVEIPELEFELGMAVLGGKFTTLEGLLKDIRELVTKNPFTLGDSS
PGAAVAPSPAPAPPPAPDHLFRPISAEDEEQQPTEIESL C MN C YC NGMTRLLLTKIPFFREIIVSSFS C EH C GWNNTEIQSAGRIQDQGVRYTLSVRALEDMNREVVKTDSAATRIPELDFEIPAFSQKGALTTVEGLITRAISGLEQDQPARRANKDATAERIDEFIVKLKELKQVASPFTLIIDDPSGNSFVENPHAPQKDDALVITHYNRTRQQEEMLGLQEEAPAEKPEEEDLRNEVLQFSTN C PEC NAPAQTNMKLVQIPHFKEVIIMATN C EN C GHRTNEVKSGGAVEPLGTRITLHITDASDMTRDLLKSET C SVEIPELEFELGMAVLGGKFTTLEGLLKDIRELVTKNPF
PGAAVAPSPAPAPPPAPDHLFRPISAEDEEQQPTEIESLCMNCYCNGMTRLLLTKIPFFREIIVSSFS C EH C GWNNTEIQSAGRIQDQGVRYTLSVRALEDMNREVVKTDSAATRIPELDFEIPAFSQKGALTTVEGLITRAISGLEQDQPARRANKDATAERIDEFIVKLKELKQVASPFTLIIDDPSGNSFVENPHAPQKDDALVITHYNRTRQQEEMLGLQEEAPAEKPEEEDLRNEVLQFSTN C PEC NAPAQTNMKLVQIPHFKEVIIMATN C EN C GHRTNEVKSGGAVEPLGTRITLHITDASDMTRDLLKSETCSVEIPELEFELGMAVLGGKFTTLEGLLKDIRELVTKNPFTLGDSS
VLLGGKFFFTTLEGLLKDIRELVLVTKNPFTLGDSS
ELLGMAAVVLGGKFTTLEGLLLKDIRELVTKNPF
VLLGGKFFFTTLEGLLKDIRELVLVTKNPFTLGDSS
P
P
P
PGAAVAPSPAPAPPPPAPDHLFRPISSAEDEEE
PGAAVAPSPAPAPPPPAPDHLFRPISSAEDEEE
PGAAVAPSPAPAPPPPAPDHLFRPISSAEDEEE
A
DE
C
B
Figure 3. ZnCPT accurately reports established examples of zinc/metal binding (HCT116 lysate)
(A) Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed zinc-ﬁnger-constituting cysteines in zinc-ﬁnger protein 1 (ZPR1) upon TPEN/ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 10–14 (control-ZnCl2), 6
(control-TPEN), 8–12 (ZnCl 2), and 4 (TPEN). Mean ± SEM.
(B) Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed cysteines in SUMO-activating enzyme subunit 2 (SAE2) upon TPEN/ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 10–14 (control-ZnCl2), 6 (control-
TPEN), 8–12 (ZnCl 2), and 4 (TPEN). Mean ± SEM.
(C) Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed cysteines in GTP-binding nuclear protein (RAN) upon TPEN/EDTA/ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 14 (control-ZnCl 2), 6 (control-
TPEN), 6 (control-EDTA 1 mM), 4 (control-EDTA 5 mM), 12 (ZnCl 2), 4 (TPEN), 4 (EDTA 1 mM), and 4 (EDTA 5 mM). Mean ± SEM.
(D) Structure of metal regulatory transcription factor 1 (MTF1; AlphaFold 44), and including zinc modeled by AlphaFill. 45 Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed zinc-
ﬁnger-constituting cysteines in MTF1 upon ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 4–14 (control-ZnCl 2) and 4–12 (ZnCl 2). Mean ± SEM.
(E) Quantiﬁcation of cysteine peptide abundance upon TPEN/ZnCl 2 treatment, compared with control, in ISCU and MTF1. n = 6 (control), 4 (ZnCl2), and 4 (TPEN).
Mean ± SEM.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 837
Resource

=== Page 8 ===
(legend on next page)
ll
OPEN ACCESS
838 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 9 ===
zinc-binding sites and did not exhibit strong consensus motifs
(Figure S3 B). This supports the conclusion that these cysteine
accessibility changes are reporting on indirect structural changes
that result from zinc binding.
We next systematically examined structural characteristics
deﬁning the microenvironments of zinc-coordinating cysteines
in three dimensions across the ZnCPT dataset using human
AlphaFold
44 structures ( Figure S3 C ) .C o n s i s t e n tw i t hp r i m a r y
sequence motif analysis, some general features were identiﬁed
as distinct or shared across constitutive and inducible binding
sites. The presence of nearby cysteine(s) and histidine is apparent
in both types of zinc binding, comprising typical C2H2, C3H1, and
C4 zinc-ﬁnger structures (Figures 4Da n dS3C). Conversely, disul-
ﬁde bonds, suggested by the close distance of cysteines (<3 A˚ ),
were more frequent in inducible sites ( Figures 4Da n d S3C–S3F).
As three-dimensional (3D) structures capture coordinating
residues distal in sequence space that cannot be identiﬁed in pri-
mary sequence analysis, unbiased hierarchical clustering of the
site 3D microenvironment was performed. This identiﬁed struc-
turally distinct classes for constitutive (c-clusters: 10) and induc-
ible (i-clusters: 6) sites ( Figures 4 D and S3C–S3F). Among
constitutive zinc-binding sites, c-clusters 1 and 4 mostly repre-
sented single cysteine sites surrounded by hydrophobic resi-
dues, while disulﬁde structures dominated in c-cluster 2.
Notably, the dynamic redox regulation of protein disulﬁdes
29
may indicate that AlphaFold-predicted disulﬁde structures could
be more dynamic. For example, two adjacent disulﬁdes could
form C4 coordination for zinc. C-clusters 5–8 represented the
traditional C2H2 type, dominated by vicinal basic (c-cluster 5)
or acidic (c-cluster 6) residues. In contrast, c-cluster 7 was
marked by an adjacent basic (lysine or arginine) and acidic res-
idue, while c-cluster 8 was surrounded by hydrophobic residues.
The relationship is also reﬂected in the uniform manifold approx-
imation and projection (UMAP) ﬁgure, where c-cluster 6–8 sepa-
rated from others. C-cluster 9 and 10 were dominated by C4 and
C3H1, respectively. For inducible zinc-binding sites, i-cluster 4
represented C3H1 and C4, while i-clusters 5 and 6 represented
C2H2. There were instances of six proximal cysteines in i-cluster
4, presumably coordinating two zinc to form a Zn
2C6 conﬁgura-
tion. These i-clusters (4–6) separated from other clusters in
UMAP analysis, indicating different structural mechanisms. In
i-cluster 1, the zinc binding site often involved a single cysteine
accompanied by an acidic residue and histidine, where water
molecules or the acidic side chain could act as additional coor-
dinating partners. In contrast, i-clusters 2 and 3 were dominated
by disulﬁdes. Collectively, this analysis provided a structural ba-
sis for the diversity of zinc-binding sites, including their physico-
chemical properties.
ZnCPT nominates previously undescribed zinc-binding
proteins
ZnCPT identiﬁed many established zinc-binding cysteines while
identifying thousands of previously undescribed sites. The
strong conservation of sequence and structural features of newly
identiﬁed zinc-binding sites and concordance with known zinc-
binding motifs underscore the breadth of zinc binding across
the cysteine proteome. Signiﬁcant enrichment of zinc-ﬁnger mo-
tifs was the predominant signature of these cysteines identiﬁed
as zinc binding by ZnCPT ( Figures 4 B, 4C, and S3C). Building
on this, we explored and validated individual examples of newly
identiﬁed zinc-binding proteins.
We ﬁrst explored examples of cysteines for which zinc binding
had been previously described in homologous proteins across
species. One such case is the conserved C3H1 zinc-binding
site in the NDUFS6 subunit of NADH dehydrogenase, which
has been identiﬁed in structures of the mouse (PDB: 6G2J
52)
and bovine (PDB: 5LC5 53) but not the human enzyme (PDB:
5XTD54)( Figure 4 E). So, ZnCPT provides evidence for a known
conserved zinc-binding site in human NDUFS6. We also found
similar cases when exploring structurally conserved zinc-binding
motifs in protein families. For example, protein tyrosine phos-
phatases (PTPs) have a conserved active site containing a cata-
lytic cysteine, which in the case of PTP1B, has been shown to
have a high afﬁnity for zinc.
51,55–58 ZnCPT identiﬁed the active
site Cys190 of PTPC1 as a novel target of inducible zinc binding
(Figure 4F). Structural modeling of PTPC1 proposes high similar-
ity to the PTP1B active site. Thus, ZnCPT identiﬁes a zinc-bind-
ing site in PTPC1 that is supported by structural homology.
Figure 4. Sequence and structural features of zinc binding nominate previously undescribed zinc-binding proteins
(A) Protein Families Database (Pfam) domain enrichment for constitutive zinc-binding cysteines. Enrichment: Fisher’s exact test: adjusted p values (Benjamini-
Hochberg26).
(B) Primary sequence motifs of constitutive zinc-binding cysteines. E value: signiﬁcance of the motif enrichment.
(C) Primary sequence motifs of inducible zinc-binding cysteines. E value: signiﬁcance of the motif enrichment.
(D) Representative overlay of enriched structural folds of constitutive or inducible zinc-binding sites, identiﬁed by distance analysis for zinc-binding cysteine
environments, related to Figures S3C–S3E.
(E) Overlay of cryoEM structures: bovine (PDB: 5LC5), mouse (PDB: 6G2J), and human (PDB: 5XTD) NDUFS6. Inset shows C3H1 zinc ﬁnger including zinc ions of
mouse and bovine structures. No zinc was modeled in the human structure. ZnCPT identiﬁes the zinc-ﬁnger-constituting cysteines as constitutive zinc binding in
humans. n = 14 (control-ZnCl
2), 6 (control-TPEN), 12 (ZnCl 2), and 4 (TPEN). Mean ± SEM.
(F) Overlayed structures of PTP1B (PDB: 3I80) and the AlphaFold 44-predicted structure of PTPC1. PTP1B residues previously shown to bind zinc are high-
lighted.51 Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed cysteines in PTPC1 upon ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 4–14 (control-ZnCl 2) and 4–12 (ZnCl 2). Mean ± SEM.
(G) Cysteines in the bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) exhibit accessibility changes upon TPEN/ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 10–14 (control-ZnCl 2), 6 (control-
TPEN), 8–12 (ZnCl 2), and 4 (TPEN). Microscale thermophoresis (MST) of recombinant BRD4 bromodomain 2 (333–460) upon ZnCl 2 and TPEN treatment. n =3
(TPEN) and 5 (ZnCl 2). Mean ± SEM. Relative accessibility of Cys607 in recombinant BRD4 (600–700) when spiked into HCT116 cell lysates in the presence of
10 mM ZnCl2 and upon treatment with 0.5 mM TPEN. n = 4. Signiﬁcance: two-tailed Student’s t test.
(H) Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed cysteines in the SDHA subunit of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) upon ZnCl 2 treatment indicate zinc binding. n =1 4
(control-ZnCl2) and 12 (ZnCl 2). ZnCl 2 stimulates SDH activity in isolated mouse heart mitochondrial membranes. Signiﬁcance: one-way ANOVA (Bonferroni
adjustment). n = 3 (independent reactions). Mean ± SEM.
See also Figure S3.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 839
Resource

=== Page 10 ===
In addition, we validated a newly identiﬁed zinc-binding pro-
tein for which no previous evidence of zinc binding existed either
for the target itself or across the protein family or homologs. We
examined the chromatin reader bromodomain-containing pro-
tein 4 (BRD4), a known cancer driver and drug target,
59,60 which
was found to contain cysteines that exhibit accessibility changes
upon TPEN or ZnCl
2 treatment in two protein regions (Figure 4G).
We generated the region of BRD4 containing Cys607 as recom-
binant protein, as this site exhibited the strongest response to
TPEN (Figure 4G). Analysis of zinc binding to Cys607 conﬁrmed
increased accessibility upon TPEN treatment, indicating consti-
tutive zinc binding. The bromodomain 2 (BD2) region of BRD4
possessed several sites that responded to zinc status. We em-
ployed microscale thermophoresis on recombinant BRD4-BD2
and determined thermophoretic shifts indicating dynamic zinc
binding upon TPEN/ZnCl
2 treatment with a dissociation constant
(KD) of 5.9 mM for ZnCl 2 (Figure 4 G). We also explored whether
proteins displaying indirect features of zinc binding, where
cysteine exposure increased upon ZnCl 2 treatment, might still
inform on zinc-mediated regulation of the protein target. For
example, we identiﬁed multiple ZnCl
2-induced indirect changes
in the succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) subunit A (SDHA) ( Fig-
ure 4 H). Assessing the direct effect of zinc on isolated SDH,
we ﬁnd that ZnCl 2 elevated SDH activity in a concentration-
dependent manner, suggesting a potential regulatory effect of
zinc on mitochondrial respiration. Notably, in experiments with
isolated systems, we applied zinc that is not buffered by the
small-molecule and protein pools that exist within the cell. This
likely renders the effective zinc concentration higher than the
equivalent nominal concentration added to cells or lysates.
Moreover, in this context, we cannot replicate how low molecular
weight ligands or metallothionein could facilitate zinc binding.
The zinc-binding and redox-regulated cysteine
proteomes partially overlap
We found that the distinctive structural features deﬁning zinc co-
ordination differ from those that are characteristic of redox-regu-
lated cysteines.
29 This suggests that zinc-binding and redox-
regulated cysteines may not represent the same population.
To examine this, we compared the zinc-binding proteome with
the recently determined landscape of cysteines subject to
reversible oxidation.
29 Approximately 12,000 unique cysteines,
conserved between human and mouse, were shared across
the datasets. Remarkably, we found that cysteines subject to a
high degree of redox modiﬁcation were underrepresented in
the constitutive and inducible zinc-binding proteomes, albeit
the overlap of the redox dataset was proportionally lower for
zinc-binding cysteines, compared with non-binding cysteines
(Figure 5 A). Notably, zinc-binding cysteine motifs are devoid of
a proximal arginine residue,
29 a characteristic feature of redox-
regulated cysteines. Instead, acidic as well as lysine residues
mark zinc-binding cysteines ( Figures 4B–4D). We also identiﬁed
several examples of cysteines that appear amenable to zinc
binding and redox modiﬁcation. For instance, alcohol dehydro-
genase active site cysteines are targets of redox regulation. 61–63
ZnCPT conﬁrms constitutive zinc binding to the active site and a
C4 peripheral zinc ﬁnger of alcohol dehydrogenase 5 (ADHX;Fig-
ure S4 A). Similarly, constitutive zinc-coordinating Cys87 of the
NDUFS6 subunit of NADH dehydrogenase 64 and Cys223 of the
ribosyldihydronicotinamide dehydrogenase 2 (NQO2) 65,66 were
identiﬁed in ZnCPT (Figure S4B) and are known to be redox regu-
lated.29,67 Metalloproteases represent another protein family
subject to redox regulation, although most do not employ
cysteine to coordinate the catalytic zinc ( Figure S4 C).
Conversely, the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase),
MMP (matrix metalloproteinase), and ATS (a disintegrin and met-
alloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) families contain a
zinc-coordinating cysteine in their autoinhibitory pro-peptide,
which functions as an oxidizable cysteine switch.
68,69 In
ZnCPT, the zinc-coordinating Cys173 of ADAM10 was
conﬁrmed as constitutive zinc binding having been identiﬁed
previously as highly oxidized. 29
Zinc engages iron-binding proteins
As most zinc-bound cysteine sites in ZnCPT had not been
determined previously, we sought to systematically classify
the biological activities of the zinc-binding proteome. Notably,
constitutive and inducible zinc-binding targets coalesced to
largely distinct biological functions ( Figures 5B and 5C;
Table S2 ). Protein functions related to nucleic acid and ubiqui-
tin binding were enriched among constitutive zinc-binding pro-
teins ( Figure 5 B). Conversely, protein targets of inducible zinc
binding appeared enriched for iron-binding protein classes
(Figure 5C; Table S2 ). In total, ZnCPT mapped 14 iron-binding
proteins as inducible zinc binding, among which iron-depen-
dent dioxygenases predominated. This protein class is exem-
pliﬁed by EGLN1 (PHD2), a principal component of the HIF1 a
signaling pathway. The enzyme hydroxylates two proline
residues within HIF1a , thereby marking its substrate for ubiqui-
tin-dependent degradation
70,71 (Figures 5 D and 5E). EGLN1
exhibited pronounced changes in cysteine accessibility, char-
acteristic for dynamic zinc binding ( Figure 5D). Using full-length
human recombinant EGLN1, we determined a concentration-
dependent inhibition of prolyl hydroxylation activity upon
ZnCl
2 treatment ( Figure 5 F).
ZnCPT also provided potential insights into modes of dy-
namic zinc regulation of iron-binding proteins, for example,
the de novo iron-sulfur cluster (ISC) assembly machinery.
72–76
Zinc has been implicated as a co-factor for the ISC assembly
machinery, but its physiological role remains obscure. 72,75–82
Zinc can be coordinated by ir on-sulfur cluster assembly
enzyme ISCU residues Cys95, Asp71, and His137 and NFS1
Cys381 ( Figure 5 G).
72,76 Binding of ISC assembly activator fra-
taxin (FXN) displaces the NFS1 loop carrying Cys381 and reor-
ients zinc coordination to ISCU residues Cys95, Asp71, and
Cys138.74,75,83,84 This possibly primes the complex for a cata-
lytic cycle. 74,75,85,86 Importantly, iron but not zinc binding al-
lowed iron-sulfur (FeS) formation by an in vitro ISC assembly
complex.85 ZnCPT quantiﬁed ISCU Cys95 and Cys138, but
not NFS1 Cys381, as dynamic zinc-binding residues, support-
ing a FXN-bound intermediary state awaiting initiation of catal-
ysis (Figure 5 G).
75,76,87 These data suggest a possible dynamic
zinc-dependent regulation of ISC assembly in human cells,
which might also extend to other ISC-binding proteins.
88
Beyond, ISCU active site Cys69, 95, and 130 and NFS1 cata-
lytic Cys381 also appear as targets of redox regulation in the
ll
OPEN ACCESS
840 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 11 ===
A
D
E
F
G
C
B
Figure 5. Zinc regulates diverse functional protein classes including iron-binding proteins
(A) Proteome-wide comparison of dynamic cysteine oxidation (Oximouse dataset 29), compared with zinc-binding capacity (ZnCPT).
(B) GO term (function) enrichment for constitutive zinc-binding cysteine-containing proteins. Enrichment: Fisher’s exact test: adjusted p values (Benjamini-
Hochberg26).
(C) GO term (function) enrichment for inducible zinc-binding cysteine-containing proteins identiﬁes iron-binding proteins as enriched protein class. Enrichment:
Fisher’s exact test: adjusted p values (Benjamini-Hochberg 26).
(D) Cysteine accessibility changes in HIF1 a prolyl hydroxylase EGLN1 (PHD2) upon TPEN/ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 10–14 (control-ZnCl 2), 6 (control-TPEN), 8–12
(ZnCl2), and 4 (TPEN). Mean ± SEM.
(E) Schematic of HIF1 a regulation via EGLN1 (PHD2)-dependent prolyl hydroxylation, which targets HIF1 a for ubiquitin-dependent degradation.
(F) Concentration-dependent inhibition of EGLN1 (PHD2)-dependent HIF1 a ODD peptide hydroxylation by zinc. n = 3 (independent reactions). Mean ± SEM.
(G) The iron-sulfur (FeS) cluster assembly complex can coordinate zinc by ISCU Asp71, Cys95, His137, and NFS1 Cys381 (PDB: 5WLW). Upon association wi th
frataxin (FXN), zinc coordination rearranges and is constituted by ISCU Asp71, Cys95, and Cys138 (PDB: 6NZU). Cysteine accessibility changes upon TPEN/
ZnCl
2 treatment of quantiﬁed cysteines in ISCU and NFS1. n = 10–14 (control-ZnCl 2), 6 (control-TPEN), 8–12 (ZnCl 2), and 4 (TPEN). Mean ± SEM.
See also Figure S4.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 841
Resource

=== Page 12 ===
redox dataset ( Figure S4D, previous section). It remains unclear
whether the captured oxidation is part of the catalytic turnover,
while zinc coordination might stabilize the active site cysteines
prior to catalytic turnover, possibly protecting these from
oxidation.
75,89
Systematic functional classiﬁcation of zinc-regulated
oncoproteins
We reasoned that mapping zinc-binding cysteines onto protein
networks could reveal pathways dominated by zinc-binding
proteins ( Figures 6Aa n d S4E). In doing so, we found ZnCPT
correctly identiﬁed constitutive zinc-binding subunits of RNA
polymerase ( Figures S4E and S4F). Furthermore, ubiquitin-
mediated proteolysis was highly enriched, with ZnCPT identi-
fying E1 SUMO-activating enzymes and E3 ubiquitin/SUMO
protein ligases as constitutive zinc binding, in agreement with
the conservation of zinc-ﬁnger domains in ubiquitin-/SUMO-
binding proteins ( Figures S4 Ea n dS 4 G ) .
43,90 Among the most
enriched were proteins involved in regulating tumorigenic pro-
cesses, with many well-established cancer-critical proteins be-
ing identiﬁed as zinc binding by ZnCPT ( Figures 6 A, S4E, and
S4H). This provided an opportunity to nominate cancer depen-
dencies that could be regulated by zinc. To examine this
idea systematically, we combined the ZnCPT dataset with
DepMap,
91 a comprehensive collection of genetic depen-
dencies across 1,095 cancer cell lines. To identify common
essential and cancer cell-speciﬁc dependencies, we ranked
average Chronos Cancer Dependency scores and minimum
Z scores ( Figure S5 A). Correlating both scores denoted two
major subpopulations: general e ssential proteins and selective
cancer dependencies ( Figures 6 Ba n dS5 B), which enabled the
identiﬁcation of 123 constitutive and 52 inducible zinc-binding
major selective genetic dependencies in DepMap. We posited
that targeting zinc regulation might be a strategy to manipulate
the function of these cancer dependencies.
We identiﬁed numerous zinc-binding functional domains of es-
tablished cancer dependencies such as GSR, GTP cyclohydrolase
1 (GCH1), delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase (ALDH18A1),
riboﬂavin transporter (SLC52A2), 5-demethoxyubiquinone hy-
droxylase (COQ7), peroxiredoxin 1 (PRX1), and MTF1 (Figure 6C;
Table S3 ). From this, we selected GSR as the most prominent
zinc-binding cancer dependency ( Figures 6B and 6C). In partic-
ular, we found that among cancer cells, SKMES1 lung cancer cells
display by far the highest selective GSR dependency (Figure S5C).
To gain a deeper understanding of the potential role of GSR in lung
cancer, we assessed the expression and protein abundance
92 of
GSR across 684 cancer cell lines and determined a strong correla-
tion ( Figure S5 D). We observed an elevation in average GSR
expression in lung, compared with other cancer cell lines, which
was driven by a population of high GSR-expressing cells. Notably,
these cancer cells also exhibited elevated expression of GCLC and
GCLM, which catalyzes the rate-limiting reaction of glutathione
(GSH) synthesis, as well as G6PD and PGD, both central
NADPH-producing enzymes of the pentose phosphate pathway
(Figure S5 D). These ﬁndings were complemented by a relative
elevation of GSH, GSSG, and NADP abundance,
93 suggesting
that GSH redox metabolism is critical for GSR High lung cancers,
possibly to protect against elevated oxidative stress. This moti-
vated us to further elucidate the relationship between GSR and
lung cancers as functional targets of zinc.
Zinc binds GSR and induces cytotoxicity in select lung
cancers
GSR is critical for maintaining cellular redox homeostasis by
keeping the GSH pool reduced. GSH metabolism has been
widely studied as a therapeutic vulnerability in numerous can-
cers,
94,95 and our ﬁndings suggest its possible relevance in
lung cancer. GSR is a functional homodimer, with its active site
constituted by both subunits ( Figures 7 A and 7C). The enzyme
contains two active site cysteines that catalyze the reduction
of oxidized glutathione (GSSG).
96,97 ZnCPT detected the active
site and the cysteine at the dimer interface as responsive to
ZnCl
2 treatment (Figures 7B and 7C). Notably, the peptide con-
taining Cys102 and 107 was quantiﬁed in single-labeled
(Cys102) and double-labeled (Cys102;107) forms. Effects on
the Cys102 peptide will be attributable to accessibility changes
for Cys102 speciﬁcally, while quantiﬁcation of the Cys102;107
peptide will integrate changes to both cysteines in a single
signal, therefore possibly precluding unequivocal interpretation.
We investigated the functional consequences of zinc binding to
GSR and found that zinc inhibits human recombinant GSR with
an IC
50 below 1 mM( Figure 7 D). Furthermore, we observed a
slight increase in GSR activity upon titration of TPEN, possibly
indicating low-level inhibition by zinc at baseline ( Figure 7 D).
To designate the target cysteine of inhibitory zinc binding, we
generated a recombinant C134S mutant of human GSR and
found that there was no perturbation of zinc-mediated enzyme
inhibition ( Figure 7 E), indicating that the active site cysteines of
GSR were the key functional targets of zinc. These results
were corroborated by isothermal calorimetry (ITC) measure-
ments, which established a K
D of 5.2 ± 2.6 mM for the wild-
type enzyme ( Figure 7 F). Conversely, replacing the active site
histidine for a lysine (H511K, catalytic dead) and thereby disrupt-
ing the putative zinc-binding site in the catalytic domain reduced
the binding afﬁnity for zinc by two orders of magnitude ( Fig-
ure 7 F). This data support zinc-mediated inhibition of GSR by
binding to the active site cysteine. To examine how zinc could
be incorporated, we applied mixed quantum mechanics and mo-
lecular mechanics (QM/MM) calculations to optimize a structural
model with zinc present at the active site. The energy-minimized
model suggested that tetrahedral coordination provided by
Cys102, Cys107, Thr383, and His511 from the partner chain
could be stable, consistent with the mutation data ( Figure 7G).
Next, we explored whether zinc-mediated GSR inhibition
could be used to therapeutically target GSR in lung cancer cells.
First, we determined the effect of zinc on the GSH redox state in
the GSR-dependent SKMES1 and GSR
High A549 human lung
cancer cells (Figures S5C and S5D).98–100 We conﬁrmed a signif-
icantly lower GSH pool size in A549, compared with SKMES1
cells, in agreement with public data ( Figures S5 D and S6A).93
Upon 5-h treatment with zinc pyrithione (ZnPyr; membrane-
permeable zinc complex), we observed a concentration-depen-
dent depletion of free GSH, compared with untreated samples,
which correlated with an increase in GSSG levels in both cell
types ( Figure 7 H). Notably, high concentrations of pyrithione
did not affect the GSH redox state, while low concentrations of
ll
OPEN ACCESS
842 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 13 ===
Figure 6. Systematic identiﬁcation of zinc-binding proteins that are cancer cell genetic dependencies
(A) KEGG pathway enrichment for inducible zinc-binding proteins (ZnCl 2). Enrichment: Fisher’s exact test: adjusted p values (Benjamini-Hochberg 26).
(B) Mapping Chronos CRISPR dependency scores (DepMap) against minimum Z scores deﬁnes populations of essential genes and selective cancer de-
pendencies including targets of inducible (ZnCl 2) zinc binding. Targets with average Chronos CRISPR dependency > /C00.25 and minimum Z score < /C05 are
selected, and the minimum Z score is mapped against the minimum Chronos CRISPR dependency score to identify strong selective dependencies (minimum
Chronos CRISPR dependency < /C01). Glutathione reductase (GSR) is identiﬁed as a selective dependency and target of inducible zinc binding.
(C) ZnCPT identiﬁes numerous selective cancer dependencies (DepMap) as targets of dynamic zinc binding, targeting diverse functional protein domains. See
Table S3 for unabridged set of targets.
See also Figure S5.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 843
Resource

=== Page 14 ===
(legend on next page)
ll
OPEN ACCESS
844 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 15 ===
pyrithione combined with ZnCl 2 (PyrlowZnCl2) substantially
elevated GSSG levels ( Figure S6 B). As zinc (+Pyr) effectively
depleted free GSH in both cell lines, we hypothesized that zinc
might promote substantial oxidative stress and thereby drive
cytotoxicity in GSR-reliant cancer cells. To examine this, we
determined cell viability upon treatment with ZnPyr or
Pyr
lowZnCl2 for 24 h and found that both cell lines exhibited
considerable sensitivity to zinc with LD 50 at 10–20 mM, which
coincided with almost complete depletion of total GSH
(Figures 7I and S6C). Because pyrithione alone appeared slightly
inhibitory to cell proliferation at elevated concentrations ( Fig-
ure S6 D), and owing to the limited cytotoxicity induced by zinc
salicylate and ZnCl 2 (Figures S6 E and S6F), Pyr lowZnCl2 was
selected as standard treatment from here on. To examine a
direct mechanistic link between zinc (+Pyr)-induced cytotoxicity
and GSR inhibition, we rescued zinc (+Pyr)-mediated GSH deple-
tion by replenishing cellular thiols using either N-acetyl cysteine
(NAC) or cell permeable GSH ethyl ester (GSHee). Both interven-
tions markedly alleviated zinc
(+Pyr)-induced toxicity ( Figures 7 J
and S6G). Moreover, a similar desensitization to zinc (+Pyr)-
induced cell death was observed upon overexpression of GSR
(Figures S6 H and S6I). Likewise, overexpression of the
S. thermophilus high-capacity GSH-producing enzyme GshF
and a mitochondria-targeted form (MitoGshF)
101 resulted in a
marked reduction of zinc (+Pyr)-induced cytotoxicity in both cell
lines ( Figures 7 K and S6J). Together, these data suggested
that zinc (+Pyr) induces toxicity to GSR-dependent SKMES1 and
GSRHigh A549 lung cancer cells through inhibition of GSR.
Guided by these ﬁndings, we wondered if dietary zinc supple-
mentation might be a potential strategy to limit growth of GSR-
dependent tumors in vivo . Zinc is a widely used supplement
and well tolerated by mice and humans, so we reasoned that
GSR-dependent tumors may be selectively sensitive to eleva-
tions in dietary zinc. To investigate this hypothesis, we employed
a subcutaneous xenograft model, implanting SKMES1 cells into
the ﬂanks of nude BALB/c mice. Mice received either drinking or
zinc-supplemented water (Figure 7L). Remarkably, tumor growth
in zinc-supplemented mice was signiﬁcantly reduced, compared
with controls ( Figures 7 L, S7A, and S7B), without any signs of
zinc-induced toxicity ( Figure S7 C). In conclusion, leveraging
ZnCPT together with pharmacological and genetic strategies,
we identify a mechanism of zinc-mediated inhibition of GSR
that regulates cytotoxicity in select GSR-reliant lung cancer cells
that could be exploited by dietary intervention with zinc. Impor-
tantly, the reliance on GSH metabolism might extend to other tu-
mor types and might depend on diverse aspects of tumor
biology. Thus, zinc regulation of GSR may prove relevant more
broadly in other tumor contexts in vivo.
DISCUSSION
ZnCPT represents an atlas of the human zinc-binding cysteine
proteome, which deﬁnes thousands of constitutive and induc-
ible zinc-binding cysteines across a range of protein functional
domains. ZnCPT reports deep proteome coverage with high
speciﬁcity and accuracy, enabling residue-level assignment
of zinc binding to proteins. This compendium is provided as
an intuitive web-based interface ( https://zncpt-chouchani-lab.
dfci.harvard.edu ). By capturing a substantial proportion of the
proteome, ZnCPT deﬁnes general physicochemical and struc-
tural properties that govern zinc coordination. The systematic
structural analysis of zinc-binding site environments identiﬁed
distinct features of zinc coordination sites between inducible
and constitutive sites. These features also differentiate zinc-
binding from redox-regulated cysteines, thereby enabling the
classiﬁcation of functionally distinct cysteine populations
across the proteome.
The comprehensive mapping of the zinc-binding proteome en-
ables systematic investigation of zinc-regulated cellular pro-
cesses. ZnCPT allowed for the identiﬁcation of numerous cancer
dependencies as targets of zinc binding. Based on this, we eluci-
dated the mechanistic basis for potent zinc-mediated inhibition of
GSR by binding to its active site. This forms the basis for marked
zinc-induced cytotoxicity in GSR-reliant lung cancer cells. In
conclusion, further research into a potential therapeutic role for
zinc to enhance chemotherapeutics-induced cytotoxicity by
Figure 7. ZnCPT identiﬁes GSR as cancer vulnerability that can be modulated by zinc
(A) Schematic illustration of GSR (catalytic dimer) which regulates the cellular redox state by utilizing NADPH as redox equivalent to reduce GSSG into GSH.
(B) Accessibility changes of quantiﬁed cysteines in GSR upon TPEN/ZnCl 2 treatment. n = 6–14 (control-ZnCl 2), 6 (control-TPEN), 4–12 (ZnCl 2), and 4 (TPEN).
Mean ± SEM.
(C) Possible coordination sites for zinc in GSR: active site: Cys102 and 107 and His511; dimer interface: His126 and Cys134 of both protein chains. PDB: 3DK4.
(D) GSR activity of wild-type human recombinant GSR upon titration with TPEN and ZnCl 2. n = 9 (3 experiments of each 3 independent reactions). Mean ± SEM.
(E) GSR activity of wild-type and C134S mutant human recombinant GSR upon titration with ZnCl 2. n = 3 (independent reactions). Mean ± SEM.
(F) Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) analysis for wild-type and H511K-mutant human recombinant GSR.
(G) Energy-minimized model of zinc binding to the active site of GSR, coordinated by Cys102, Cys107, Thr383, and His511. Based on PDB: 2AAQ.
(H) Concentration-dependent oxidation of the cellular GSH pool upon treatment of SKMES1 and A549 lung cancer cells with zinc pyrithione for 5 h. n = 7 (0 and
10 mM), 4 (1 and 5 mM), and 2 (2.5 and 7.5 mM). Mean ± SEM or mean ± range (for n =2 ) .
(I) Concentration-dependent zinc-mediated cytotoxicity (zinc pyrithione or 2 mM pyrithione + ZnCl
2) upon treatment of SKMES1 and A549 lung cancer cells for 24
h. n = 12–24 (zinc pyrithione) and 6–12 (pyrithione + ZnCl 2). Mean ± SEM.
(J) Reduced zinc-mediated cytotoxicity (2 mM pyrithione + ZnCl 2) upon treatment of SKMES1 and A549 lung cancer cells with 10 mM N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) or
1 mM glutathione ethyl ester (GSHee). n = 6. Mean ± SEM.
(K) Reduced zinc-mediated cytotoxicity (2 mM pyrithione + ZnCl 2) upon overexpression of S. thermophilus GshF or mitochondria-targeted GshF (MitoGshF) in
SKMES1 and A549 lung cancer cells. n = 6. Mean ± SEM.
(L) Xenograft tumor model assessing zinc toxicity on SKEMES1 xenografts in mice provided with control or zinc-supplemented drinking water. Tumors were
collected 57 (cohort 1) or 76 (cohort 2; matched to cohort 1 by tumor size) days after implantation and compared in size and weight. Matrigel plugs without visible
tumor growth are indicated. N = 22 (control) and 19 (zinc-supplemented). Mean ± SEM. Signiﬁcance: two-tailed Student’s t test.
See also Figures S6 and S7.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 845
Resource

=== Page 16 ===
sensitizing cancer cells to redox stress will be of interest. Taken
together, the ZnCPT compendium provides the basis for the
mechanistic characterization of targets underlying zinc regulation
and can be used as a foundation for future work elucidating the
critical role of zinc regulation over cellular functions in health and
disease.
Limitations of the study
Although ZnCPT reaches unprecedented depth in capturing
zinc binding across the human cysteine proteome, it fails to
interrogate binding sites that do not utilize cysteine for zinc co-
ordination ( Figure S1 A). It is also noteworthy that while nearly
half of previously annotated zinc-binding sites mapped by
ZnCPT were recapitulated, a substantial number of previously
annotated zinc-binding sites were marked as non-zinc binding
in our experiments. Possible explanations for this include the
fact that the manipulations employed to assess zinc binding
may not always result in changed availability to CPT labeling,
thus resulting in false negatives. It is also possible that under
the conditions of our study, in some cases, the respective sites
may not be occupied with zinc. Moreover, ZnCPT identiﬁed
over 1,000 cysteines that exhibited changes in availability to
CPT labeling upon ZnCl
2/TPEN treatment, which are opposite
to what would be expected for direct zinc coordination. Struc-
tural rearrangements caused by zinc binding to a different site
within the same protein or, alternatively, rearrangements result-
ing from zinc-mediated effects on a protein implicated in a
shared protein complex might explain this observation. It is
also important to note that ZnCPT on its own cannot inform
on the binding state of other metals or the competition or
crosstalk with other metals bound to proteins. Finally, our
work has identiﬁed zinc-mediated cytotoxicity in GSR-reliant
lung cancer cells, and we provide pharmacological and genetic
evidence to demonstrate on-target toxicity of zinc. However, it
was not possible to generate non-zinc-binding but catalytically
active mutants of GSR, which would have proven useful for as-
sessing the on-target toxicity of zinc. A more general limitation
of our examination of zinc effects in cell and mouse tumor
studies is the fact that zinc can exhibit diverse pleiotropic ef-
fects and might induce cytotoxicity via alternative mechanisms
or at higher concentrations in other systems or more complex
whole-animal studies.
RESOURCE AVAILABILITY
Lead contact
Further information and requests for resources should be directed to and will
be fulﬁlled by the lead contact, Edward T. Chouchani (edwardt_chouchani@
dfci.harvard.edu).
Materials availability
This study did not generate any new reagents.
Data and code availability
d The proteomics data underlying ZnCPT have been deposited in
PRIDE102: PXD057034.
d ZnCPT data can be accessed at https://zncpt-chouchani-lab.dfci.
harvard.edu.
d Original source data and any additional required information are avail-
able from the lead contact upon reasonable request.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported the Claudia Adams Barr Program, the Lavine Family
Fund, the Pew Charitable Trust, NIH DK123095, NIH AG071966, the Smith
Family Foundation, and the American Federation for Aging Research to
E.T.C. E.T.C. is an HHMI investigator. N.B. was supported by the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG: Projektnummer 501493132), M.J.M. by the
Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG: Projektnummer 461079553), H.X.
by the NIH (NIH K99AG073461), L.H.M.B. by the American Heart Association
(926512), E.K.H. by the NIH (R01DK119117), H.-G.S. by Hope Funds for Can-
cer Research (HFCR-20-03-01-02), Y.S. by the NIH (K01DK132455), A.L.S. by
the NIH (T32-HL160522), N.D. by the NIH (T32CA236754), P.L.-M. by the NIH
NIDDK (K99DK133502), and J.J.P. by the NIH (K00AG073493). We thank John
Alberta and Arianne Smith for providing support for this study. S.D.P. acknowl-
edges funding from the Linde Family Foundation and NIBR. We thank Kijun,
Nick/Zoe, Luke, and GeneUniversal for recombinant protein work. We thank
the DF/HCC Rodent Histopathology Core and the MicRoN microscopy facility
(Prajus V. Anekal) for their support. We thank Sam Ireland and Andrew C.R.
Martin for providing the ZincBind dataset. We thank Jan Lj. Miljkovic, Katherine
Blackmore, and Ariana Vargas-Castillo for comments and suggestions.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
N.B. and E.T.C. carried out study conception and design. N.B. designed and
performed most experiments, analyzed data, interpreted results, and pre-
pared ﬁgures. M.J.M. and N.B. designed and performed tumor xenograft ex-
periments, with the help of J.J.P. and H.-G.S. H.X., S.S., N.D., and A.L.S. as-
sisted with LC-MS experiments, data interpretation, and analysis. E.K.H.,
D.M.W., Y.S., L.H.M.B., S.S., P.L.-M., H.-S.S., and S.D.-P. assisted with target
validations. S.M.W. and N.B. built the ZnCPT website. S.M. assisted with data
analysis. Y.Z. and J.C. performed structural analyses and modeling. The
manuscript was written by E.T.C. and N.B. with the help of all authors.
E.T.C. directed the study.
DECLARATION OF INTERESTS
E.T.C. is a co-founder, equity holder, and board member of Matchpoint
Therapeutics and a co-founder and equity holder in Aevum Therapeutics.
J.C. is a co-founder of Matchpoint Therapeutics and consultant for Soltego,
Allorion, and Matchpoint Therapeutics and holds equity in Soltego, Allorion,
and Matchpoint Therapeutics.
STAR+METHODS
Detailed methods are provided in the online version of this paper and include
the following:
d KEY RESOURCES TABLE
d EXPERIMENTAL MODEL AND STUDY PARTICIPANT DETAILS
B Animal maintenance
B Xenograft experiments
B Maintenance of cell lines
d METHOD DETAILS
B Calculation of cysteine frequency across zinc binding sites
B CPT synthesis
B Preparation of native cell lysates
B Measurement of free zinc in native cell lysates
B ZnCl2/chelator treatments and CPT labeling
B Protein digestion and TMT labeling
B Cysteine peptide enrichment
B Cysteine peptide fractionation by HPLC
B Peptide desalting (stage tip) for LC-MS/MS
B LC-MS/MS parameters
B Database searching
B TMT reporter-based quantiﬁcation
B Data analysis
B Analysis of the 3D structural coordination motif of zinc binding
B Molecular modeling GSR zinc binding site
ll
OPEN ACCESS
846 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 17 ===
B Pairwise structural alignment
B In vitro hydroxylation of HIF1 a -ODD peptide by human recombi-
nant EGLN1
B Expression and puriﬁcation of human recombinant GSR
B Expression of human BRD4 (333-460)
B Expression of human BRD4 (600-700)
B Isothermal Titration Calorimetry
B Cell Viability Assay
B Glutathione Reductase Activity Assay
B Measurement of total GSH and GSSG in cells
B Generation of stable overexpression cell lines
B Isolation of mouse heart mitochondrial membranes
B Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity assay
B Western blot
B Microscale Thermophoresis
B Cysteine accessibility on recombinant protein
B Hematoxylin and Eosin (H & E) staining
B ZnCPT web application
d QUANTIFICATION AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
B Quantiﬁcation and Statistical Analysis
B Figures
d ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
Supplemental information can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.
2024.11.025.
Received: January 18, 2024
Revised: June 24, 2024
Accepted: November 16, 2024
Published: December 31, 2024
REFERENCES
1. Kre˛ _zel, A., and Maret, W. (2016). The biological inorganic chemistry of
zinc ions. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 611, 3–19. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.abb.2016.04.010.
2. Maret, W. (2015). Analyzing free zinc(ii) ion concentrations in cell biology
with ﬂuorescent chelating molecules. Metallomics 7, 202–211. https://
doi.org/10.1039/c4mt00230j.
3. Maret, W. (2017). Zinc in Cellular Regulation: The Nature and Signiﬁcance
of ‘‘Zinc Signals.’’. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 18, 2285. https://doi.org/10.3390/
ijms18112285.
4. Passerini, A., Andreini, C., Menchetti, S., Rosato, A., and Frasconi, P.
(2007). Predicting zinc binding at the proteome level. BMC Bioinformat-
ics 8, 39. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-8-39.
5. Andreini, C., Banci, L., Bertini, I., and Rosato, A. (2006). Counting the
Zinc-Proteins Encoded in the Human Genome. J. Proteome Res. 5,
196–201. https://doi.org/10.1021/pr050361j.
6. Kre˛ _zel, A., and Maret, W. (2006). Zinc-buffering capacity of a eukaryotic
cell at physiological pZn. J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 11, 1049–1062. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s00775-006-0150-5.
7. Vinkenborg, J.L., Nicolson, T.J., Bellomo, E.A., Koay, M.S., Rutter, G.A.,
and Merkx, M. (2009). Genetically encoded FRET sensors to monitor
intracellular Zn2+ homeostasis. Nat. Methods 6, 737–740. https://doi.
org/10.1038/nmeth.1368.
8. Hessels, A.M., Chabosseau, P., Bakker, M.H., Engelen, W., Rutter, G.A.,
Taylor, K.M., and Merkx, M. (2015). eZinCh-2: A Versatile, Genetically En-
coded FRET Sensor for Cytosolic and Intraorganelle Zn2+ Imaging. ACS
Chem. Biol.10, 2126–2134.https://doi.org/10.1021/acschembio.5b00211.
9. Pratt, E.P.S., Damon, L.J., Anson, K.J., and Palmer, A.E. (2021). Tools
and techniques for illuminating the cell biology of zinc. Biochim. Biophys.
Acta Mol. Cell Res. 1868, 118865. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbamcr.
2020.118865.
1 0 .D i t t m e r ,P . J . ,M i r a n d a ,J . G . ,G o r s k i ,J . A . ,a n dP a l m e r ,A . E .( 2 0 0 9 ) .
Genetically Encoded Sensors to Elucidate Spatial Distribution of
Cellular Zinc *. J. Biol. Chem. 284, 16289–16297. https://doi.org/10.
1074/jbc.M900501200 .
11. Lo, M.N., Damon, L.J., Wei Tay, J., Jia, S., and Palmer, A.E. (2020). Single
cell analysis reveals multiple requirements for zinc in the mammalian cell
cycle. eLife 9, e51107. https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.51107.
12. Rakshit, A., Holtzen, S.E., Lo, M.N., Conway, K.A., and Palmer, A.E.
(2023). Human cells experience a Zn2+ pulse in early G1. Cell Rep. 42,
112656. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2023.112656.
13. Qin, Y., Dittmer, P.J., Park, J.G., Jansen, K.B., and Palmer, A.E. (2011).
Measuring steady-state and dynamic endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi
Zn2+ with genetically encoded sensors. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
108, 7351–7356. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1015686108.
14. Park, J.G., Qin, Y., Galati, D.F., and Palmer, A.E. (2012). New Sensors for
Quan
titative Measurement of Mitochondrial Zn2+. ACS Chem. Biol. 7,
1636–1640. https://doi.org/10.1021/cb300171p.
15. Bozym, R.A., Thompson, R.B., Stoddard, A.K., and Fierke, C.A. (2006).
Measuring Picomolar Intracellular Exchangeable Zinc in PC-12 Cells Us-
ing a Ratiometric Fluorescence Biosensor. ACS Chem. Biol. 1, 103–111.
https://doi.org/10.1021/cb500043a.
16. Carter, K.P., Carpenter, M.C., Fiedler, B., Jimenez, R., and Palmer, A.E.
(2017). Critical Comparison of FRET-Sensor Functionality in the Cytosol
and Endoplasmic Reticulum and Implications for Quantiﬁcation of Ions.
Anal. Chem. 89, 9601–9608. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.
7b02933.
17. Colvin, R.A., Holmes, W.R., Fontaine, C.P., and Maret, W. (2010). Cyto-
solic zinc buffering and mufﬂing: Their role in intracellularzinc homeosta-
sis. Metallomics 2, 306–317. https://doi.org/10.1039/b926662c.
18. Kre˛ _zel, A., Hao, Q., and Maret, W. (2007). The zinc/thiolate redox
biochemistry of metallothionein and the control of zinc ion ﬂuctuations
in cell signaling. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 463, 188–200. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.abb.2007.02.017.
19. Colvin, R.A., Bush, A.I., Volitakis, I., Fontaine, C.P., Thomas, D., Kikuchi,
K., and Holmes, W.R. (2008). Insights into Zn2+ homeostasis in neurons
from experimental and modeling studies. Am. J. Physiol. Cell Physiol.
294, C726–C742. https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpcell.00541.2007.
20. Kre˛ _zel, A., Wo´ jcik, J., Maciejczyk, M., and Bal, W. (2003). May GSH and
l-His contribute to intracellular binding of zinc? Thermodynamic and so-
lution structural study of a ternary complex. Chem. Commun. (Camb) 6,
704–705. https://doi.org/10.1039/B300632H.
21. Jacob, C., Maret, W., and Vallee, B.L. (1998). Control of zinc transfer be-
tween thionein, metallothionein, and zinc proteins. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 95, 3489–3494. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.95.7.3489.
22. Kre˛ _zel, A., and Maret, W. (2008). Thionein/metallothionein control Zn(II)
availability and the activity of enzymes. J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 13,
401–409. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00775-007-0330-y.
23. Jiang, L.J., Maret, W., and Vallee, B.L. (1998). The glutathione redox
couple modulates zinc transfer from metallothionein to zinc-depleted
sorbitol dehydrogenase. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95, 3483–3488.
https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.95.7.3483.
24. Pace, N.J., and Weerapana, E. (2014). A Competitive Chemical-Proteo-
mic Platform To Identify Zinc-Binding Cysteines. ACS Chem. Biol. 9,
258–265. https://doi.org/10.1021/cb400622q.
25. Yan, T., Desai, H.S., Boatner, L.M., Yen, S.L., Cao, J., Palafox, M.F.,
Jami-Alahmadi, Y., and Backus, K.M. (2021). SP3-FAIMS Chemoproteo-
mics for High-Coverage Proﬁling of the Human Cysteinome. ChemBio-
Chem. Chembiochem 22, 1841–1851. https://doi.org/10.1002/cbic.
202000870.
26. Benjamini, Y., and Hochberg, Y. (1995). Controlling the False Discovery
Rate: A Practical and Powerful Approach to Multiple Testing. Journal of
the Royal Statistical Society Series B 57, 289–300. https://doi.org/10.
1111/j.2517-6161.1995.tb02031.x.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 847
Resource

=== Page 18 ===
27. Ireland, S.M., and Martin, A.C.R. (2019). ZincBind—the database of zinc
binding sites. Database (Oxford) 2019, baz006. https://doi.org/10.1093/
database/baz006.
28. Pace, N.J., and Weerapana, E. (2014). Zinc-Binding Cysteines: Diverse
Functions and Structural Motifs. Biomolecules 4, 419–434. https://doi.
org/10.3390/biom4020419.
29. Xiao, H., Jedrychowski, M.P., Schweppe, D.K., Huttlin, E.L., Yu, Q., Hepp-
ner, D.E., Li, J., Long, J., Mills, E.L., Szpyt, J., et al. (2020). A Quantitative
Tissue-Speciﬁc Landscape of Protein Redox Regulation during Aging.
Cell 180,9 6 8 – 9 8 3 . e 2 4 .https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.012.
30. Peris-Dı´az, M.D., Guran, R., Zitka, O., Adam, V., and Kre ˛ _zel, A. (2020).
Metal- and Afﬁnity-Speciﬁc Dual Labeling of Cysteine-Rich Proteins for
Identiﬁcation of Metal-Binding Sites. Anal. Chem. 92, 12950–12958.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.0c01604.
31. Burger, N., and Chouchani, E.T. (2024). A new era of cysteine prote-
omics – technological advances in thiol biology. Curr. Opin. Chem.
Biol. 79, 102435. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cbpa.2024.102435.
32. Darabedian, N., Ji, W., Fan, M., Lin, S., Seo, H.-S., Vinogradova, E.V.,
Yaron, T.M., Mills, E.L., Xiao, H., Senkane, K., et al. (2023). Depletion of cre-
atine phosphagen energetics with a covalent creatine kinase inhibitor. Nat.
Chem. Biol. 19,8 1 5 – 8 2 4 .https://doi.org/10.1038/s41589-023-01273-x.
33. Huttlin, E.L., Bruckner, R.J., Navarrete-Perea, J., Cannon, J.R., Baltier,
K., Gebreab, F., Gygi, M.P., Thornock, A., Zarraga, G., Tam, S., et al.
(2021). Dual proteome-scale networks reveal cell-speciﬁc remodeling
of the human interactome. Cell 184, 3022–3040.e28. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.cell.2021.04.011.
34. Li, J., Cai, Z., Vaites, L.P., Shen, N., Mitchell, D.C., Huttlin, E.L., Paulo,
J.A., Harry, B.L., and Gygi, S.P. (2021). Proteome-wide mapping of
short-lived proteins in human cells. Mol. Cell 81, 4722–4735.e5. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.molcel.2021.09.015.
35. Costello, L.C., and Franklin, R.B. (2016). A comprehensive review of the
role of zinc in normal prostate function and metabolism; and its implica-
tions in prostate cancer. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 611, 100–112. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.abb.2016.04.014.
36. Stamoulis, I., Kouraklis, G., and Theocharis, S. (2007). Zinc and the liver:
an active interaction. Dig. Dis. Sci. 52, 1595–1612. https://doi.org/10.
1007/s10620-006-9462-0.
37. Thul, P.J., A˚ kesson, L., Wiking, M., Mahdessian, D., Geladaki, A., Ait Blal,
H., Alm, T., Asplund, A., Bjo¨ rk, L., Breckels, L.M., et al. (2017). A subcel-
lular map of the human proteome. Science 356, eaal3321. https://doi.
org/10.1126/science.aal3321.
38. The UniProt Consortium (2023). UniProt: the Universal Protein Knowl-
edgebase in 2023. Nucleic Acids Res. 51, D523–D531. https://doi.org/
10.1093/nar/gkac1052.
39. Galcheva-Gargova, Z., Konstantinov, K.N., Wu, I.H., Klier, F.G., Barrett,
T., and Davis, R.J. (1996). Binding of Zinc Finger Protein ZPR1 to the
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor. Science 272, 1797–1802. https://
doi.org/10.1126/science.272.5269.1797.
40. Doran, B., Gherbesi, N., Hendricks, G., Flavell, R.A., Davis, R.J., and
Gangwani, L. (2006). Deﬁciency of the zinc ﬁnger protein ZPR1 causes
neurodegeneration. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103, 7471–7475.
https://doi.
org/10.1073/pnas.0602057103.
41. Sabbarini, I.M., Reif, D., McQuown, A.J., Nelliat, A.R., Prince, J., Mem-
breno, B.S., Wu, C.C.-C., Murray, A.W., and Denic, V. (2023). Zinc-ﬁnger
protein Zpr1 is a bespoke chaperone essential for eEF1A biogenesis.
Mol. Cell 83,2 5 2 – 2 6 5 . e 1 3 .https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcel.2022.12.012.
42. Lois, L.M., and Lima, C.D. (2005). Structures of the SUMO E1 provide
mechanistic insights into SUMO activation and E2 recruitment to E1.
EMBO J. 24, 439–451. https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.emboj.7600552.
43. Wang, J., and Chen, Y. (2010). Role of the Zn2+ Motif of E1 in SUMO Ad-
enylation. J. Biol. Chem. 285, 23732–23738. https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.
M110.114660.
44. Jumper, J., Evans, R., Pritzel, A., Green, T., Figurnov, M., Ronneberger,
O., Tunyasuvunakool, K., Bates, R., /C20Zı´dek, A., Potapenko, A., et al.
(2021). Highly accurate protein structure prediction with AlphaFold. Na-
ture 596, 583–589. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03819-2.
45. Hekkelman, M.L., de Vries, I., Joosten, R.P., and Perrakis, A. (2023). Al-
phaFill: enriching AlphaFold models with ligands and cofactors. Nat.
Methods 20, 205–213. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-022-01685-y.
46. Scheffzek, K., Klebe, C., Fritz-Wolf, K., Kabsch, W., and Wittinghofer, A.
(1995). Crystal structure of the nuclear Ras-related protein Ran in its
GDP-bound form. Nature 374, 378–381. https://doi.org/10.1038/
374378a0.
47. Boudhraa, Z., Carmona, E., Provencher, D., and Mes-Masson, A.-M.
(2020). Ran GTPase: A Key Player in Tumor Progression and Metastasis.
Front. Cell Dev. Biol. 8, 345. https://doi.org/10.3389/fcell.2020.00345.
48. Gu¨ nther, V., Lindert, U., and Schaffner, W. (2012). The taste of heavy
metals: gene regulation by MTF-1. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1823, 1416–
1425. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbamcr.2012.01.005.
49. Potter, B.M., Feng, L.S., Parasuram, P., Matskevich, V.A., Wilson, J.A.,
Andrews, G.K., and Laity, J.H. (2005). The Six Zinc Fingers of Metal-
responsive Element Binding Transcription Factor-1 Form Stable and
Quasi-ordered Structures with Relatively Small Differences in Zinc Afﬁn-
ities. J. Biol. Chem. 280, 28529–28540. https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.
M505217200.
50. Guerrerio, A.L., and Berg, J.M. (2004). Metal Ion Afﬁnities of the Zinc
Finger Domains of the Metal Responsive Element-Binding Transcription
Factor-1 (MTF1). Biochemistry 43, 5437–5444. https://doi.org/10.1021/
bi0358418.
51. Bellomo, E., Massarotti, A., Hogstrand, C., and Maret, W. (2014). Zinc
ions modulate protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B activity. Metallomics 6,
1229–1239. https://doi.org/10.1039/c4mt00086b.
52. Agip, A.A., Blaza, J.N., Bridges, H.R., Viscomi, C., Rawson, S., Muench,
S.P., and Hirst, J. (2018). Cryo-EM structures of complex I from mouse
heart mitochondria in two biochemically deﬁned states. Nat. Struct.
Mol. Biol. 25, 548–556. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41594-018-0073-1.
53. Zhu, J., Vinothkumar, K.R., and Hirst, J. (2016). Structure of mammalian
respiratory complex I. Nature 536, 354–358. https://doi.org/10.1038/
nature19095.
54. Guo, C.-J., Chang, F.-Y., Wyche, T.P., Backus, K.M., Acker, T.M., Funa-
bashi, M., Taketani, M., Donia, M.S., Nayfach, S., Pollard, K.S., et al.
(2017). Discovery of Reactive Microbiota-Derived Metabolites that Inhibit
Host Proteases. Cell 168, 517–526.e18. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.
2016.12.021.
55.
Brautigan, D.L., Bornstein, P., and Gallis, B. (1981). Phosphotyrosyl-pro-
tein phosphatase. Speciﬁc inhibition by Zn. J. Biol. Chem. 256, 6519–
6522. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0021-9258(19)69016-2.
56. Maret, W., Jacob, C., Vallee, B.L., and Fischer, E.H. (1999). Inhibitory
sites in enzymes: zinc removal and reactivation by thionein. Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 96, 1936–1940. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.96.5.1936.
57. Haase, H., and Maret, W. (2003). Intracellular zinc ﬂuctuations modulate
protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in insulin/insulin-like growth
factor-1 signaling. Exp. Cell Res. 291, 289–298. https://doi.org/10.
1016/s0014-4827(03)00406-3.
58. Zhang, Z.-Y. (2002). Protein Tyrosine Phosphatases: Structure and Func-
tion, Substrate Speciﬁcity, and Inhibitor Development. Annu. Rev. Phar-
macol. Toxicol. 42, 209–234. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.pharmtox.
42.083001.144616.
59. Donati, B., Lorenzini, E., and Ciarrocchi, A. (2018). BRD4 and Cancer:
going beyond transcriptional regulation. Mol. Cancer 17, 164. https://
doi.org/10.1186/s12943-018-0915-9.
60. Liu, Z., Wang, P., Chen, H., Wold, E.A., Tian, B., Brasier, A.R., and Zhou,
J. (2017). Drug Discovery Targeting Bromodomain-Containing Protein 4.
J. Med. Chem. 60, 4533–4558. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.
6b01761.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
848 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 19 ===
61. Men, L., and Wang, Y. (2007). The Oxidation of Yeast Alcohol
Dehydrogenase-1 by Hydrogen Peroxide in Vitro. J. Proteome Res. 6,
216–225. https://doi.org/10.1021/pr0603809.
62. Gergel, D., and Cederbaum, A.I. (1996). Inhibition of the Catalytic Activity
of Alcohol Dehydrogenase by Nitric Oxide Is Associated with S Nitrosy-
lation and the Release of Zinc. Biochemistry 35, 16186–16194. https://
doi.org/10.1021/bi962043r.
63. Giles, N.M., Watts, A.B., Giles, G.I., Fry, F.H., Littlechild, J.A., and Jacob,
C. (2003). Metal and Redox Modulation of Cysteine Protein Function.
Chem. Biol. 10, 677–693. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1074-5521(03)
00174-1.
64. Kmita, K., Wirth, C., Warnau, J., Guerrero-Castillo, S., Hunte, C., Hummer,
G., Kaila, V.R.I., Zwicker, K., Brandt, U., and Zickermann, V. (2015). Acces-
sory NUMM (NDUFS6) subunit harbors a Zn-binding site and is essential for
biogenesis of mitochondrial complex I. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 112,
5685–5690. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1424353112.
65. Foster, C.E., Bianchet, M.A., Talalay, P., Zhao, Q., and Amzel, L.M.
(1999). Crystal Structure of Human Quinone Reductase Type 2, a Metal-
loﬂavoprotein. Biochemistry 38, 9881–9886. https://doi.org/10.1021/
bi990799v.
66. Buryanovskyy, L., Fu, Y., Boyd, M., Ma, Y., Hsieh, T.C., Wu, J.M., and
Zhang, Z. (2004). Crystal Structure of Quinone Reductase 2 in Complex
with Resveratrol. Biochemistry 43, 11417–11426. https://doi.org/10.
1021/bi049162o.
67. Chouchani, E.T., James, A.M., Methner, C., Pell, V.R., Prime, T.A., Erick-
son, B.K., Forkink, M., Lau, G.Y., Bright, T.P., Menger, K.E., et al. (2017).
Identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of protein S-nitrosation by nitrite in the
mouse heart during ischemia. J. Biol. Chem. 292, 14486–14495.
https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M117.798744.
68. Van Wart, H.E., and Birkedal-Hansen, H. (1990). The cysteine switch:
a principle of regulation of metalloproteinase activity with potential
applicability to the entire matrix metalloproteinase gene family. Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 87, 5578–5582. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.87.14.5578.
69. Nelson, K.K., and Melendez, J.A. (2004). Mitochondrial redox control of
matrix metalloproteinases. Free Radic. Biol. Med. 37, 768–784. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2004.06.008.
70. Ivan, M., and Kaelin, W.G. (2017). The EGLN-HIF O2-Sensing System:
Multiple Inputs and Feedbacks. Mol. Cell 66, 772–779. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.molcel.2017.06.002.
71. Lee, P., Chandel, N.S., and Simon, M.C. (2020). Cellular adaptation to
hypoxia through hypoxia inducible factors and beyond. Nat. Rev. Mol.
Cell Biol. 21, 268–283. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41580-020-0227-y.
72. Cory, S.A., Van Vranken, J.G., Brignole, E.J., Patra, S., Winge, D.R.,
Drennan, C.L., Rutter, J., and Barondeau, D.P. (2017). Structure of hu-
man Fe–S assembly subcomplex reveals unexpected cysteine desulfur-
ase architecture and acyl-ACP–ISD11 interactions. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 114, E5325–E5334. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1702849114.
73. Lill, R. (2009). Function and biogenesis of iron–sulphur proteins. Nature
460, 831–838. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature08301.
74. Maio, N., and Rouault, T.A. (2020). Outlining the Complex Pathway of
Mammalian Fe-S Cluster Biogenesis. Trends Biochem. Sci. 45,
411–426. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tibs.2020.02.001.
75. Fox, N.G., Yu, X., Feng, X., Bailey, H.J., Martelli, A., Nabhan, J.F., Strain-
Damerell, C., Bulawa, C., Yue, W.W., and Han, S. (2019). Structure of the
human frataxin-bound iron-sulfur cluster assembly complex provides
insight into its activation mechanism. Nat. Commun. 10, 2210. https://
doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-09989-y.
76. Boniecki, M.T., Freibert, S.A., Mu ¨ hlenho
 ff, U., Lill, R., and Cygler, M.
(2017). Structure and functional dynamics of the mitochondrial Fe/S clus-
ter synthesis complex. Nat. Commun. 8, 1287. https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41467-017-01497-1.
77. Fox, N.G., Martelli, A., Nabhan, J.F., Janz, J., Borkowska, O., Bulawa, C.,
and Yue, W.W. (2018). Zinc(II) binding on human wild-type ISCU and
Met140 variants modulates NFS1 desulfurase activity. Biochimie 152,
211–218. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biochi.2018.07.012.
78. Ramelot, T.A., Cort, J.R., Goldsmith-Fischman, S., Kornhaber, G.J.,
Xiao, R., Shastry, R., Acton, T.B., Honig, B., Montelione, G.T., and Ken-
nedy, M.A. (2004). Solution NMR Structure of the Iron–Sulfur Cluster As-
sembly Protein U (IscU) with Zinc Bound at the Active Site. J. Mol. Biol.
344, 567–583. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmb.2004.08.038.
79. Kornhaber, G.J., Snyder, D., Moseley, H.N.B., and Montelione, G.T.
(2006). Identiﬁcation of Zinc-ligated Cysteine Residues Based on 13C a
and 13C b Chemical Shift Data. J. Biomol. NMR 34, 259–269. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s10858-006-0027-5.
80. Roy, P., Bauman, M.A., Almutairi, H.H., Jayawardhana, W.G., Johnson,
N.M., and Torelli, A.T. (2018). Comparison of the Response of Bacterial
IscU and SufU to Zn2+ and Select Transition-Metal Ions. ACS Chem.
Biol. 13, 591–599. https://doi.org/10.1021/acschembio.7b00442.
81. Li, J., Ren, X., Fan, B., Huang, Z., Wang, W., Zhou, H., Lou, Z., Ding, H.,
Lyu, J., and Tan, G. (2019). Zinc Toxicity and Iron-Sulfur Cluster Biogen-
esis in Escherichia coli. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 85, e01967-18. https://
doi.org/10.1128/AEM.01967-18.
82. Iannuzzi, C., Adrover, M., Puglisi, R., Yan, R., Temussi, P.A., and Pastore, A.
(2014). The role of zinc in the stability of the marginally stable IscU scaffold
protein. Protein Sci. 23, 1208–1219. https://doi.org/10.1002/pro.2501.
83. Patra, S., and Barondeau, D.P. (2019). Mechanism of activation of the
human cysteine desulfurase complex by frataxin. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 116, 19421–19430. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1909535116.
84. Parent, A., Elduque, X., Cornu, D., Belot, L., Le Caer, J.-P., Grandas, A.,
Toledano, M.B., and D’Autre´ aux, B. (2015). Mammalian frataxin directly
enhances sulfur transfer of NFS1 persulﬁde to both ISCU and free thiols.
Nat. Commun. 6, 5686. https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms6686.
85. Gervason, S., Larkem, D., Mansour, A.B., Botzanowski, T., Mu ¨ ller, C.S.,
Pecqueur, L., Le Pavec, G., Delaunay-Moisan, A., Brun, O., Agramunt, J.,
et al. (2019). Physiologically relevant reconstitution of iron-sulfur cluster
biosynthesis uncovers persulﬁde-processing functions of ferredoxin-2
and frataxin. Nat. Commun. 10, 3566. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-
019-11470-9.
86. Srour, B., Gervason, S., Hoock, M.H., Monfort, B., Want, K., Larkem, D.,
Trabelsi, N., Landrot, G., Zitolo, A., Fonda, E., et al. (2022). Iron Insertion
at the Assembly Site of the ISCU Scaffold Protein Is a Conserved Process
Initiating Fe–S Cluster Biosynthesis. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 144, 17496–
17515. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c06338.
87. Bennett, P.S., Crack, C.J., Puglisi, R., Pastore, A., and Brun, N.E.L.
(2022). Native mass spectrometric studies of IscSU reveal a concerted,
sulfur-initiated mechanism of iron–sulfur cluster assembly. Chem. Sci.
14, 78–95. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2SC04169C.
88. Tsutsumi, E., Niwa, S., Takeda, R., Sakamoto, N., Okatsu, K., Fukai, S.,
Ago, H., Nagao, S., Sekiguchi, H., and Takeda, K. (2023). Structure of a
putative immature form of a Rieske-type iron-sulfur protein in complex
with zinc chloride. Commun. Chem. 6, 190. https://doi.org/10.1038/
s42004-023-01000-6.
89. Lin, C.-W., McCabe, J.W., Russell, D.H., and Barondeau, D.P. (2020).
Molecular Mechanism of ISC Iron–Sulfur Cluster Biogenesis Revealed
by High-Resolution Native Mass Spectrometry. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
142, 6018–6029. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b11454.
90. Metzger, M.B., Pruneda, J.N., Klevit, R.E., and Weissman, A.M. (2014).
RING-
type E3 ligases: master manipulators of E2 ubiquitin-conjugating
enzymes and ubiquitination. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1843, 47–60.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbamcr.2013.05.026.
91. Tsherniak, A., Vazquez, F., Montgomery, P.G., Weir, B.A., Kryukov, G.,
Cowley, G.S., Gill, S., Harrington, W.F., Pantel, S., Krill-Burger, J.M.,
et al. (2017). Deﬁning a Cancer Dependency Map. Cell 170, 564–
576.e16. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2017.06.010.
92. Gonc ¸ alves, E., Poulos, R.C., Cai, Z., Barthorpe, S., Manda, S.S., Lucas,
N., Beck, A., Bucio-Noble, D., Dausmann, M., Hall, C., et al. (2022).
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025 849
Resource

=== Page 20 ===
Pan-cancer proteomic map of 949 human cell lines. Cancer Cell 40, 835–
849.e8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2022.06.010.
93. Li, H., Ning, S., Ghandi, M., Kryukov, G.V., Gopal, S., Deik, A., Souza, A.,
Pierce, K., Keskula, P., Hernandez, D., et al. (2019). The landscape of
cancer cell line metabolism. Nat. Med. 25, 850–860. https://doi.org/10.
1038/s41591-019-0404-8.
94. Ortega, A.L., Mena, S., and Estrela, J.M. (2011). Glutathione in
Cancer Cell Death. Cancers 3, 1285–1310. https://doi.org/10.3390/
cancers3011285.
95. Cheng, X., Xu, H.-D., Ran, H.-H., Liang, G., and Wu, F.-G. (2021). Gluta-
thione-Depleting Nanomedicines for Synergistic Cancer Therapy. ACS
Nano 15, 8039–8068. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c00498.
96. Berkholz, D.S., Faber, H.R., Savvides, S.N., and Karplus, P.A. (2008).
Catalytic Cycle of Human Glutathione Reductase Near 1 A ˚ Resolution.
J. Mol. Biol. 382, 371–384. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmb.2008.06.083.
97. Pai, E.F., and Schulz, G.E. (1983). The catalytic mechanism of glutathione
reductase as derived from x-ray diffraction analyses of reaction interme-
diates. J. Biol. Chem. 258, 1752–1757. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0021-
9258(18)33050-3.
98. Booty, L.M., Gawel, J.M., Cvetko, F., Caldwell, S.T., Hall, A.R., Mulvey,
J.F., James, A.M., Hinchy, E.C., Prime, T.A., Arndt, S., et al. (2019).
Selective Disruption of Mitochondrial Thiol Redox State in Cells and
In Vivo. Cell Chem. Biol. 26, 449–461.e8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chem-
biol.2018.12.002.
99. Scarlett, J.L., Packer, M.A., Porteous, C.M., and Murphy, M.P. (1996).
Alterations to glutathione and nicotinamide nucleotides during the
mitochondrial permeability transition induced by peroxynitrite. Biochem.
Pharmacol. 52, 1047–1055. https://doi.org/10.1016/0006-2952(96)
99426-5.
100. Rahman, I., Kode, A., and Biswas, S.K. (2006). Assay for quantitative
determination of glutathione and glutathione disulﬁde levels using enzy-
matic recycling method. Nat. Protoc. 1, 3159–3165. https://doi.org/10.
1038/nprot.2006.378.
101. Timson, R.C., Khan, A., Uygur, B., Saad, M., Yeh, H.-W., DelGaudio, N.L.,
Weber, R., Alwaseem, H., Gao, J., Yang, C., et al. (2024). Development of
a mouse model expressing a bifunctional glutathione-synthesizing
enzyme to study glutathione limitation in vivo. J. Biol. Chem. 300,
105645. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbc.2024.105645.
102. Perez-Riverol, Y., Bai, J., Bandla, C., Garcı ´a-Seisdedos, D., Hewapathir-
ana, S., Kamatchinathan, S., Kundu, D.J., Prakash, A., Frericks-Zipper,
A., Eisenacher, M., et al. (2022). The PRIDE database resources in
2022: a hub for mass spectrometry-based proteomics evidences. Nu-
cleic Acids Res. 50, D543–D552. https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkab1038.
103. McAlister, G.C., Nusinow, D.P., Jedrychowski, M.P., Wu ¨ hr, M., Huttlin,
E.L., Erickson, B.K., Rad, R., Haas, W., and Gygi, S.P. (2014). MultiNotch
MS3 Enables Accurate, Sensitive, and Multiplexed Detection of Differen-
tial Expression across Cancer Cell Line Proteomes. Anal. Chem. 86,
7150–7158. https://doi.org/10.1021/ac502040v.
104. Huttlin, E.L., Jedrychowski, M.P., Elias, J.E., Goswami, T., Rad, R., Beau-
soleil, S.A., Ville´ n, J., Haas, W., Sowa, M.E., and Gygi, S.P. (2010). A
Tissue-Speciﬁc Atlas of Mouse Protein Phosphorylation and Expression.
Cell 143, 1174–1189. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2010.12.001.
105. Bailey, T.L., Johnson, J., Grant, C.E., and Noble, W.S. (2015). The MEME
Suite. Nucleic Acids Res. 43, W39–W49. https://d
 oi.org/10.1093/nar/
gkv416.
106. Schweppe, D.K., Prasad, S., Belford, M.W., Navarrete-Perea, J., Bailey,
D.J., Huguet, R., Jedrychowski, M.P., Rad, R., McAlister, G., Abbatiello,
S.E., et al. (2019). Characterization and Optimization of Multiplexed
Quantitative Analyses Using High-Field Asymmetric-Waveform Ion
Mobility Mass Spectrometry. Anal. Chem. 91, 4010–4016. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acs.analchem.8b05399.
107. Eng, J.K., Jahan, T.A., and Hoopmann, M.R. (2013). Comet: an open-
source MS/MS sequence database search tool. Proteomics 13, 22–24.
https://doi.org/10.1002/pmic.201200439.
108. Elias, J.E., and Gygi, S.P. (2007). Target-decoy search strategy for
increased conﬁdence in large-scale protein identiﬁcations by mass spec-
trometry. Nat. Methods 4, 207–214. https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth1019.
109. Peng, J., Schwartz, D., Elias, J.E., Thoreen, C.C., Cheng, D., Marsischky,
G., Roelofs, J., Finley, D., and Gygi, S.P. (2003). A proteomics approach
to understanding protein ubiquitination. Nat. Biotechnol. 21, 921–926.
https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt849.
110. Beausoleil, S.A., Ville´ n, J., Gerber, S.A., Rush, J., and Gygi, S.P. (2006). A
probability-based approach for high-throughput protein phosphorylation
analysis and site localization. Nat. Biotechnol. 24, 1285–1292. https://
doi.org/10.1038/nbt1240.
111. McInnes, L., Healy, J., and Melville, J. (2020). UMAP: Uniform Manifold
Approximation and Projection for Dimension Reduction. Preprint at arXiv.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1802.03426.
112. Grant, B.J., Rodrigues, A.P.C., ElSawy, K.M., McCammon, J.A., and
Caves, L.S.D. (2006). Bio3d: an R package for the comparative analysis
of protein structures. Bioinformatics 22, 2695–2696. https://doi.org/10.
1093/bioinformatics/btl461.
113. Bodenhofer, U., Bonatesta, E., Horej /C20s-Kainrath, C., and Hochreiter, S.
(2015). msa: an R package for multiple sequence alignment. Bioinformat-
ics 31, 3997–3999. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btv494.
114. Paysan-Lafosse, T., Blum, M., Chuguransky, S., Grego, T., Pinto, B.L.,
Salazar, G.A., Bileschi, M.L., Bork, P., Bridge, A., Colwell, L., et al.
(2023). InterPro in 2022. Nucleic Acids Res. 51, D418–D427. https://
doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkac993.
115. Mistry, J., Chuguransky, S., Williams, L., Qureshi, M., Salazar, G.A.,
Sonnhammer, E.L.L., Tosatto, S.C.E., Paladin, L., Raj, S., Richardson,
L.J., et al. (2021). Pfam: the protein families database in 2021. Nucleic
Acids Res. 49, D412–D419. https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkaa913.
116. Aleksander, S.A., Balhoff, J., Carbon, S., Cherry, J.M., Drabkin, H.J.,
Ebert, D., Feuermann, M., Gaudet, P., Harris, N.L., et al.; Gene Ontology
Consortium (2023). The Gene Ontology knowledgebase in 2023. Ge-
netics 224, iyad031. https://doi.org/10.1093/genetics/iyad031.
117. Ashburner, M., Ball, C.A., Blake, J.A., Botstein, D., Butler, H., Cherry,
J.M., Davis, A.P., Dolinski, K., Dwight, S.S., Eppig, J.T., et al. (2000).
Gene Ontology: tool for the uniﬁcation of biology. Nat. Genet. 25,
25–29. https://doi.org/10.1038/75556.
118. Grant, C.E., and Bailey, T.L. (2021). XSTREME: Comprehensive motif
analysis of biological sequence datasets. Preprint at bioRxiv. https://
doi.org/10.1101/2021.09.02.458722.
119. Kanehisa, M., Furumichi, M., Sato, Y., Kawashima, M., and Ishiguro-Wa-
tanabe, M. (2023). KEGG for taxonomy-based analysis of pathways and
genomes. Nucleic Acids Res. 51, D587–D592. https://doi.org/10.1093/
nar/gkac963.
120. Tunyasuvunakool, K., Adler, J., Wu, Z., Green, T., Zielinski, M., /C20Zı´dek, A.,
Bridgland, A., Cowie, A., Meyer, C., Laydon, A., et al. (2021). Highly ac-
curate protein structure prediction for the human proteome. Nature
596, 590–596. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03828-1.
121.
Burger, N., James, A.M., Mulvey, J.F., Hoogewijs, K., Ding, S., Fearnley,
I.M., Loureiro-Lo´ pez, M., Norman, A.A.I., Arndt, S., Mottahedin, A., et al.
(2022). ND3 Cys39 in complex I is exposed during mitochondrial respira-
tion. Cell Chem. Biol. 29, 636–649.e14. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chem-
biol.2021.10.010.
122. Hateﬁ, Y., and Stiggall, D.L. (1978). Preparation and properties of succi-
nate: ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex II). Methods Enzymol. 53,
21–27. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0076-6879(78)53008-5.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
850 Cell 188, 832–850, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 21 ===
STAR+METHODS
KEY RESOURCES TABLE
REAGENT or RESOURCE SOURCE IDENTIFIER
Antibodies
GSR Polyclonal Antibody (Rabbit) Proteintech Cat#18257-1-AP; RRID: AB_10598162
GAPDH Monoclonal Antibody (Mouse) Proteintech Cat#60004-1-Ig; RRID: AB_2107436
Monoclonal ANTI-FLAG /C226 M2 antibody
(Mouse)
Sigma Cat#F1804; RRID: AB_262044
Anti-rabbit IgG (H+L) (DyLight /C212 800 4X PEG Conjugate) Cell Signaling Technology Cat#5151; RRID: AB_10697505
Anti-mouse IgG (H+L) (DyLight /C212 680 Conjugate) Cell Signaling Technology Cat#5470; RRID: AB_10696895
Bacterial and virus strains
BRD4 expression vector (333-460) Addgene Cat#38943
pLV[Exp]-EGFP:T2A:Puro-EF1A>hGSR[NM_000637.5] VectorBuilder Vector ID: VB900002-3829ghh
pLV[Exp]-EGFP:T2A:Puro-EF1A>{GshF} VectorBuilder Vector ID: VB240318-1416xyu
pLV[Exp]-EGFP:T2A:Puro-EF1A>{Mito-GshF} VectorBuilder Vector ID: VB240318-1421xwj
Chemicals, peptides, and recombinant proteins
Precision Plus Protein /C212 Dual Color Standard Bio-Rad Cat#161-0374
6-aminohexylphosphonic acid hydrochloride salt (6-AHP) SiKE ´ MIA Cat#SIK7701-11
CAS#1433996-75-8
2,6 Dichloroindolphenol sodium Sigma-Aldrich Cat#D1878;
CAS#1266615-56-8
2-vinyl pyridine Sigma-Aldrich Cat#132292;
CAS#100-69-6
Acetonitrile MS grade (ACN) Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#A996-4;
CAS#75-05-8
L-Ascorbic acid Sigma-Aldrich Cat#A92902;
CAS#50-81-7
Ammonium bicarbonate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#09830;
CAS#1066-33-7
Ammonium iron (II) sulfate hexahydrate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#203505;
CAS#7783-85-9
Antimycin A Sigma-Aldrich Cat#A8674;
CAS#1397-94-0
Atpenin A5 Santa Cruz Biotechnologies Cat#sc-202475;
CAS#119509-24-9
BSA (Bovine Serum Albumin) Sigma-Aldrich Cat#A3608;
CAS#9048-46-8
Chloroform Sigma-Aldrich Cat#288306;
CAS#67-66-3
cOmplete/C212 Mini EDTA-free Protease Inhibitor Cocktail Roche Cat#11836170001
CPT In House
Xiao et al.
29
NA
D-Desthiobiotin Santa Cruz Biotechnologies Cat#sc-294239;
CAS#533-48-2
Decylubiquinone Santa Cruz Biotechnologies Cat#sc-358659;
CAS#55486-00-5
DMEM (Dulbecco’s Modiﬁed Eagle Medium) Corning Cat#10-017-CV
DTNB (5,5-dithio-bis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) Thermo Scientiﬁc Cat#22582;
CAS#69-78-3
EDTA 0.5 M solution (Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) Sigma-Aldrich Cat#03690;
CAS#139-33-3
(Continued on next page )
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e1
Resource

=== Page 22 ===
Continued
REAGENT or RESOURCE SOURCE IDENTIFIER
EGLN1 (human recombinant full-length EGLN1/PHD2) ActiveMotif Cat#81065
EMEM (Eagle’s Minimum Essential Medium) ATCC Cat#30-2003
EPPS (N-2(Hydroxyethylpiperazine-N-
(3-propanesulfonic acid)) buffer pH 8 (200 mM)
AlphaAesar Cat#J61296
FA (Formic Acid LC-MS grade) Thermo Scientiﬁc Cat#T85178-AD;
CAS#64-18-6
FBS (Fetal Bovine Serum) GeminiBio Cat#100-106
L-Glutathione reduced (GSH) Sigma-Aldrich Cat#G6529;
CAS#70-18-8
L-Glutathione oxidized (GSSG) Sigma-Aldrich Cat#G6654;
CAS#27025-41-8
Recombinant Human Glutathione Reductase R&D Systems / Biotechne Cat#8866-GR-100
Glutathione Reductase from baker’s yeast Sigma-Aldrich Cat#3664
H
2O (LC-MS grade) Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#W6-4;
CAS#7732-18-5
HEPES buffer pH 7.5 (1 M) AlphaAesar Cat#J60712
HIF1a-ODD peptide (DLDLEALAPYIPADDDFQL) GeneScript Biotech Custom synthesis
Human Cryopreserved Hepatocytes Thawing
Medium
Lonza Cat#MCHT50
Hydroxylamine 50% solution Sigma-Aldrich Cat#438227;
CAS#7803-49-8
IGEPAL/C226 CA-630 Sigma-Aldrich Cat#I3021;
CAS#9002-93-1
Imidazol Alfa Aesar Cat#A10221.36;
CAS#288-32-4
IPTG (Isopropyl ß-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside) Sigma-Aldrich Cat#I5502;
CAS#367-93-1
Kanamycin Sigma-Aldrich Cat#K4000;
CAS#25389-94-0
KCl Sigma-Aldrich Cat#P9541;
CAS#7447-40-7
a-Ketoglutaric acid disodium salt dihydrate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#75892;
CAS#305-72-6
Lambda Phosphatase Santa Cruz Biotechnologies Cat#sc-200312A
Lipofectamine/C212 3000 Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#L3000008
LysC (Lysyl Endopeptidase /C226 ), Mass
Spectrometry grade
FUJIFILM Wako Chemicals Cat#125-05061
Matrigel/C226 Basement membrane matrix Corning Cat#354234
Methanol (ACS grade) Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#A412-4;
CAS#67-56-1
Methanol (LC-MS grade) Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#A456-4;
CAS#67-56-1
MgCl
2 hexahydrate Millipore Cat#442615;
CAS#7791-18-6
MnCl2 tetrahydrate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#221279;
CAS#13446-34-9
NaCl Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#S271-1
CAS#7647-14-5
NADPH reduced tetra sodium salt hydrate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#N7505;
CAS#2646-71-1
NADPH reduced tetra sodium salt hydrate ChemCruz Cat#sc-202725B;
CAS#2646-71-1
Ni-NTA agarose Qiagen Cat#30210
(Continued on next page )
ll
OPEN ACCESS
e2 Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 23 ===
Continued
REAGENT or RESOURCE SOURCE IDENTIFIER
NuPAGE/C212 LDS Sample Buffer (4x) Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#NP0007
NuPAGE/C212 MOPS SDS Running Buffer (20x) Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#NP0001-02
PBS (Phosphate buffered saline) Corning Cat#21-040-CV
Penicillin Streptomycin Solution Corning Cat#30-002-CI
pMD2.G AddGene Cat#12259
PolyFect/C226 Transfection Reagent Qiagen Cat#301105
Polybrene/C226 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Cat#sc-134200,
CAS#28728-55-4
Potassium Cyanide Sigma-Aldrich Cat#60178;
CAS#151-50-8
Prostate Epithelial Cell Growth Kit ATCC Cat#PCS-440-040
Prostate Epithelial Cell Basal Medium ATCC Cat#PCS-440-030
psPAX2 AddGene Cat#12260
Puromycin Gibco Cat#A111138-03
Pyrithione (2-Mercaptopyridine N-oxide) Sigma-Aldrich Cat#188549;
CAS#1121-31-9
RIPA buffer Sigma-Aldrich Cat#R0278
Rotenone Sigma-Aldrich Cat#R8875;
CAS#83-79-4
TBST (Tris Buffered Saline-Tween) (20x) Boston BioProducts Cat#IBB-180X
TCEP solution (Bond Breaker /C212 ) Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#77720
TFA (Triﬂuoroacetic acid LC-MS grade) Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#A116-50;
CAS#76-05-1
TMTpro reagents Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat# A44520 (16-plex)
Cat# A52045 (18-plex)
TPEN (N,N,N
0,N0-tetrakis(2-pyridinylmethyl)-
1,2-ethanediamine)
Sigma-Aldrich Cat#P4413;
CAS#16858-02-9
Triethanolamine Sigma-Aldrich Cat#90279;
CAS#102-71-6
Tris 1 M solution pH 7.5 TEKNova Cat# T1075
Sequencing grade modiﬁed Trypsin Promega Cat# V5113
Trypsin EDTA (0.25%) solution Gibco Cat#25200-056
Trypsin-EDTA for Primary Cells ATCC Cat# PCS-999-003
Sodium dodecyl sulfate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#L3771;
CAS#151-21-3
Strep-Tactin/C226 Sepharose/C226 resin Iba Lifesciences Cat# 2-1201-002
Succinimidyl iodoacetate (SIA) Combi-Blocks Cat#QC4655;
CAS#39028-27-8
5-Sulfosalicylic acid dihydrate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#H247006;
CAS#5965-83-3
Zinc Pyrithione Sigma-Aldrich Cat#PHR1401;
CAS#13463-41-7
Zinc Chloride Sigma-Aldrich Cat#Z0152;
CAS#7646-85-7
Zinc Siacylate trihydrate Spectrum Chemical Cat#Z1042;
CAS#16283-36-6
Zinc Sulfate Sigma-Aldrich Cat#307491;
CAS#7446-19-7
Critical commercial assays
Pierce/C212 BCA Protein Assay Kit Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#23225
Pierce/C212 Micro BCA Protein Assay Kit Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#23235
(Continued on next page )
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e3
Resource

=== Page 24 ===
Continued
REAGENT or RESOURCE SOURCE IDENTIFIER
High-Select Fe-NTA Phosphopeptide
Enrichment Kit
Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#A32992
Pierce High pH Reversed-Phase Peptide
Fractionation Kit
Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#84868
Cell Titer-Glo/C226 Luminescent Cell Viability Assay Promega Cat#G7571
Protein Labeling Kit RED-NHS 2
nd Generation NanoTemper Cat#MO-L011
Deposited data
ZnCPT Cysteine Proteomic data This study https://www.proteomexchange.org
PRIDE: PXD057034
Experimental Models: Cell lines
A549 cells ATCC Cat#CCL-185
HCT116 cells ATCC Cat#CCL-247
SK-MES-1 (SKMES1) cells ATCC Cat#HTB-58
Lenti-X/C212 293T cells Takara Bio USA Cat#632180
DonorPlexTM Pooled Donor Human Hepatocytes,
10 Donors, Mixed Gender
Lonza Cat#HUCS10P
Primary Prostate Epithelial Cells; Normal,
Human (HPrEC)
ATCC Cat#PCS-440-010
Experimental Models: Organisms/strains
Nude BALB/c mice (homozygous; female) Charles River Laboratories Cat#194
C57BL/6 mice Charles River Laboratories Cat#027
Software and algorithms
GraphPad Prism 10 GraphPad Software https://www.graphpad.com/
In-house mass spectrometry data analysis software Huttlin et al.
104 N/A
MEME Suite Bailey et al. 105 https://meme-suite.org/meme/
MO Afﬁnity Analysis Software NanoTemper N/A
NanoAnalyze software TA Instruments N/A
Adobe Illustrator Adobe https://www.adobe.com/products/
illustrator.html
PyMol version 2.3.1 / 2.5 Schroedinger https://pymol.org/2/
Python 3.7 Python Software Foundation https://www.python.org
R version 4.2.1 R Project https://www.r-project.org
R Studio version 2022.07.2 Posti, Joseph J. Allaire https://posit.co/downloads/
Thermo Xcalibur v1.4 Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc N/A
Other
Afﬁnity TIC TA Instruments N/A
Amicon/C226 Ultra Centrifugal Filter 30K MWCO 4 ml Millipore Cat#UFC8030
BL21(DE3) competent cells Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#EC0114
ClarioSTAR Plus BMG Labtech N/A
Capillaries (Monolith) NanoTemper Cat#MO-K022
EASY-nLC/C212 1200 System Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#LC140
EASY-Spray/C212 C18 HPLC column Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#ES902
HiLoad 16/600 Superdex 200 pg cytiva Cat#28989335
iBlot/C226 2 dry blotting system Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc N/A
iBlot/C226 2 PVDF Mini Stacks Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#IB24002
Monolith NT.115 NanoTemper N/A
NuPAGETM 4 to 12 % Bis-Tris gels Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#NP0335BOX
Odyssey/C226 DLx LiCor N/A
Orbitrap Eclipse /C212 Tribrid/C212 Mass Spectrometer Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc Cat#FSN04-10000
(Continued on next page )
ll
OPEN ACCESS
e4 Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 25 ===
EXPERIMENTAL MODEL AND STUDY PARTICIPANT DETAILS
Animal maintenance
Female homozygous nude BALB/c mice were purchased from Charles River Laboratories (Cat: #194) and female C57BL/6 mice were
purchased from Charles River Laboratories (Cat: #027, used for tissue harvest) and maintained in a temperature-controlled (20–22/C14C)
facility on a 6 am to 6 pm light/dark cycle with ad libitum access to chow and water. BALB/c animals were randomly assigned to
control or zinc-supplemented treatment groups for xenograft experiments. All animal experiments were in line with NIH guidelines
and approved by Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) of the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.
Xenograft experiments
Mice were stratiﬁed into two treatment groups receiving ad libitum drinking water access to either control or zinc-supplemented
(15 mM ZnSO
4) distilled water starting two days prior to tumor implantation. SKMES1 cells were trypsinized, ﬁltered (40 mM cell
strainer), counted and pelleted. The cells were resuspended in sterile Matrigel (Corning 354234) on ice. Female BALB/c nude
mice (Chares River, strain number 194) were anesthetized via inhalant isoﬂurane (2%). Prior to injection, the skin was disinfected
with ethanol. Mice were injected subcutaneously with 5 x 10 6 (SKMES1) cells in 100 mL of matrigel into the ﬂank. Following implan-
tation, body weights and tumor sizes were measured. The study comprised two independent cohorts where tumors of control were
allowed to grow to a predetermined size. Predetermined euthanasia criteria were loss of over 20 % of the pre-implantation body
weight, tumor volume reaching above 2 cm 3, or tumor becoming ulcerated and/or necrotic. On this basis 3 mice were excluded
from the ﬁrst cohort due to rapid weight loss. No such cases existed in the second cohort. No mice reached any other exclusion
criteria. Tumor growth was monitored for 54 and 76 days, for cohorts 1 and 2, respectively, until the study was terminated. Following
euthanasia via CO2, visual tumor size was documented, and tumors were rapidly excised, weighed, photographed, and snap-frozen.
Heart, lung, kidney, liver, and small and large intestines of control and zinc supplemented mice (N = 3, second cohort) were collected,
ﬁxed in ice-cold 10% neutral buffered formalin for 5 days, followed by embedding in parafﬁn and H&E (hematoxylin and eosin) stain-
ing to assess the toxicity of zinc supplementation.
Maintenance of cell lines
HCT116 and Lenti-X /C212 293T cells were cultured in DMEM (Corning, 10-017-CV) without pyruvate, supplemented with 10% FBS
(GeminiBio, 100-106) and 1% P/S (Corning, 30-002-CI). SKMES1 and A549 cells were cultured in EMEM (ATCC, 30-2003), supple-
mented with 10% FBS (GeminiBio, 100-106) and 1% P/S (ﬁnal: 100 I.U./ml Penicillin and 100 mg/ml Streptomycin; Corning, 30-002-
CI). Primary human prostate epithelial cells were cultured in prostate epithelial cell basal medium (ATCC, PCS-440-030), supple-
mented with prostate epithelial cell growth kit components (ATCC, PCS-440-040; L-Glutamine, 15 mL (ﬁnal concentration 6 mM),
Extract P, 2.0 mL (ﬁnal concentration 0.4%), epinephrine, 0.5 mL (ﬁnal concentration 1.0 mM), rhTGF a, 0.5 mL (ﬁnal concentration
0.5 ng/mL), hydrocortisone hemisuccinate, 0.5 mL (ﬁnal concentration 100 ng/mL), rhInsulin, 0.5 mL (ﬁnal concentration 5 mg/mL),
apotransferrin, 0.5 mL (ﬁnal concentration 5 mg/mL)) and 1% P/S (Corning, 30-002-CI). All cells except speciﬁed below were washed
with PBS (Corning, 21-040-CV) detached using 0.25% trypsin (Gibco, 25200-056) and subcultured every other day. Primary human
prostate epithelial cells were detached using trypsin-EDTA for primary cells (0.05% Trypsin, 0.02% EDTA in PBS without calcium or
magnesium; ATCC, PCS-999-003).
METHOD DETAILS
Calculation of cysteine frequency across zinc binding sites
Numbers on the frequency of different amino acids as zinc ligands were obtained from Ireland and Martin.
27 To determine the pro-
portion of zinc binding sites that contain at least one cysteine, all zinc binding sites that were annotated on a residue level in UniProt
Continued
REAGENT or RESOURCE SOURCE IDENTIFIER
PT 10-35 GT Electronic tissue mincer Polytron N/A
Q-Exactive HF-X Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc N/A
Q500 Sonicator Qsonica N/A
Sep-Pak 50 mg C18 Cartridge Waters Cat#WAT054955
Sep-Pak 200 mg C18 Cartridge Waters Cat#WAT054945
Sep-Pak 10 g C18 Cartridge Waters Cat#WAT043345
Empore/C212 Solid phase extraction disc C18 CDS Analytics Cat#76333-132
Ultrafree-MC 0.2 mM PTFE centrifugal ﬁlter Millipore Cat# UFC30LG25
V200 slide scanner Olympus N/A
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e5
Resource

=== Page 26 ===
were retrieved ( http://www.uniprot.org, downloaded 2024). The frequency of cysteine-containing zinc binding site was calculated,
and sites were additionally classiﬁed according to their annotation as catalytic or non-catalytic. To calculate the proportion of metal-
loproteases employing cysteines for zinc coordination, all human metalloproteases were retrieved from UniProt ( http://www.uniprot.
org, downloaded 2024) and mapped against site-level annotated zinc binding sites.
CPT synthesis
CPT was synthesized as described previously. 29 Brieﬂy, 6-aminohexylphosphonic acid hydrochloride salt (6-AHP; SiKE ´ MIA) was
added to succinimidyl iodoacetate (SIA; Combi-Blocks) to ﬁnal concentrations of 45 mM SIA and 175 mM 6-AHP and reacted at
room temperature for 1 hour while slowly stirring in the dark. The reaction was quenched with TFA (ﬁnal pH < 2) and puriﬁed via
HPLC (C18 column, solvent A: water with 0.035% TFA, solvent B: acetonitrile (ACN) with 0.035% TFA, 100%–40% solvent A over
a 60-min gradient at a ﬂow rate of 40 mL/min). Alternatively, CPT was puriﬁed via a 10 g, C18 Sep-Pak column (Waters). Column
was equilibrated with 100% methanol, followed by two column volumes of 0.1% FA in HPLC water. The CPT product solution
was loaded onto the column, then washed with one column volume of 99% water, 1% ACN, 0.1% FA. CPT was eluted with 50%
water, 50% ACN, 0.1% FA. The eluent containing CPT was frozen and lyophilized yielding a white powder. Quality was controlled
via LC-MS as described previously.
29
Preparation of native cell lysates
HCT116 cells were cultured in standard medium (Dulbeco’s Modiﬁed Eagles Medium (DMEM) w/o sodium pyruvate) in 15 cm dishes
to 80-90% conﬂuency (5 dishes per experiment). Cells were washed with 10 ml ice-cold PBS and then gently scraped into 5 ml of
PBS. Primary human hepatocytes were thawed rapidly at 37
/C14C in the waterbath and resuspended carefully in 50 ml pre-warmed Hu-
man Cryopreserved Hepatocytes Thawing Medium. Hepatocytes were pelleted by centrifugation at 200 x g, for 10 min, and washed
with 10 ml PBS. Primary human prostate epithelial cells were cultured in prostate epithelial cell medium (see maintenance of cell lines)
in 15 cm dishes to 80-90% conﬂuency (5 dishes per experiment). Cells were washed with 10 ml ice cold PBS and then gently scraped
into 5 ml of PBS. All cell types were centrifuged for 5 min at 1000 x g followed by two washes with 50 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaCl
(pH 7.5). The ﬁnal cell pellet was resuspended in 0.8 ml (4x 0.8 ml for hepatocytes) of native lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES, 150 mM
NaCl, 0.5 % (v/v) IGEPAL (pH 7.5), and 0.5 mM TCEP). Cells were incubated rotating for 10 min at 4
/C14C and subsequently disrupted
by passing 10x through a G28 injection needle. Cell lysates were clariﬁed by centrifugation for 15 min (21.000 x g and 4/C14C) and protein
content in the supernatant was determined using a Pierce/C212 BCA assay kit (Thermo Scientiﬁc, USA). Cell lysates were diluted to a ﬁnal
concentration of 2 mg protein/ ml in native lysis buffer and kept on ice and used freshly.
Measurement of free zinc in native cell lysates
To determine free zinc concentrations in native lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % (v/v) IGEPAL (pH 7.5), and 0.5 mM
TCEP) or native HCT116 cell lysate (2 mg/ml ﬁnal; for preparation see section above). Free zinc levels were determined using the high
afﬁnity FluoZin3 ﬂuorescent sensor at a ﬁnal concentration of 100 nM. ZnCl 2 (10 mM stock) was titrated into buffer and ﬂuorescence
of the FluoZin3 probe was determined at Ex = 490 (± 4) nm and Em = 520 (±4) nm using a ClarioSTAR Plus plate reader (BMG Labtech,
Germany). TPEN (200 mM) was used to generate fully zinc-chelated control samples.
ZnCl2/chelator treatments and CPT labeling
Native cell lysates (200 ml corresponding to 400 mg protein (/C24180 mg for primary human prostate epithelial cells)) were distributed into
individual Eppendorff tubes on ice. Zinc/metal binding in native lysates was manipulated by addition of 100x stocks of ZnCl 2 (10 mM
ﬁnal), TPEN (1mM ﬁnal), EDTA (1 and 5 mM ﬁnal), control samples received equivalent volume of buffer. Samples were incubated for
15 min at 37
/C14C shaking at 500 rpm, prior to addition of 10 mM CPT (200 mM stock in 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, addi-
tionally pH-ed with 1 M NaOH to pH 7.5. Accessible cysteines were labeled with CPT for 1 hour at room temperature in the dark. The
labeling was rapidly quenched by precipitation of proteins on ice, using 3x vol. of methanol, 1 vol. of chloroform and 2.5 vol. of H
2O,
followed by vortexing and centrifugation for 15 min (15.000 x g and 4 /C14C). The resulting protein precipitate was washed three times
with 1 ml methanol followed by centrifugation for each 5 min (15.000 x g and 4 /C14C).
Protein digestion and TMT labeling
Precipitated protein pellets ( /C24400mg protein/ /C24180mg for primary human prostate epithelial cells) were shortly airdried to evaporate
methanol and resuspended in 100 ml 200 mM N-(2-Hydroxyethyl)piperazine-N 0-(3-propanesulfonic acid) (EPPS) (pH 8.0), containing
trypsin (Promega; ﬁnal 1/100 enzyme/protein ratio) and LysC (Wako, Japan; ﬁnal 1/100 enzyme/protein ratio). Protein lysates were
digested overnight shaking vigorously (1500 rpm at 37
/C14C). Samples were centrifuged for 10 min at 21,000 x g, soluble peptide sus-
pension was transferred into fresh Eppendorf tubes and peptide concentration was determined by microBCA (Thermo Scientiﬁc).
Equal amounts of peptides for each sample (150-200 mg; /C24120mg for primary human prostate epithelial cell samples) were trans-
ferred into fresh tubes and samples were completed to a volume of 100 ml with 200 mM EPPS (pH 8.0). Peptides were labeled
with 40 ml of TMTpro (16- or 18-plex) reagents in acetonitrile for 1 hr in the dark at RT, while vortexed intermittently. Following the
labeling 2 ml of each sample were combined into 120 mlo f1 %F Ai nH 2O, desalted, and analyzed as ratio-check via LC-MS. TMT
labeled samples were stored transiently at -80 /C14C. Upon completion of the ratio check analysis, the labeling reaction was quenched
ll
OPEN ACCESS
e6 Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 27 ===
by addition of 5 ml hydroxylamine (5% stock) and incubation for 15 min at RT. Samples were pooled at equal amounts according to the
ratio check and diluted with 12 ml of 1% FA in H2O and subjected to gravity ﬂow driven C18 solid-phase extraction (200 mg Sep-Pak,
Waters) and subsequently vacuum dried.
Cysteine peptide enrichment
TMT labeled pooled peptides were resuspended in phosphatase buffer (50 mM HEPES, 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM MnCl 2 (pH 7.5) and
lambda phosphatase (Santa Cruz Biotechnologies) was added according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Peptides were dephos-
phorylated during 2 hrs at 30 /C14C shaking at 500 rpm. Subsequently, the sample was acidiﬁed with 10% TFA to a pH of < 3.0 ( /C2460ml),
subjected to gravity ﬂow driven C18 solid-phase extraction (200 mg Sep-Pak, Waters) and vacuum dried. CPT labeled cysteine pep-
tides were puriﬁed using the High-select Fe-NTA phosphopeptide enrichment kit (Thermo Scientiﬁc) according to the manufacturer’s
instructions. Following elution of enriched CPT-labeled cysteine peptides, the peptide suspension is acidiﬁed with 10% TFA to a pH
of < 3.0 ( /C2425 ml), subjected to gravity ﬂow driven C18 solid-phase extraction (50 mg Sep-Pak, Waters) and vacuum dried.
Cysteine peptide fractionation by HPLC
Dried peptides (/C24100 mg) were resuspended in 300 ml of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) buffer A containing 5 mM
ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.0, 5% ACN and centrifuged through a PTFE 0.2 mM ﬁlter (Merck). Peptides were fractionated with basic
pH reversed-phase HPLC using an Agilent 300 extend C18 column. A 50-min linear gradient in 13 - 43% buffer B (5 mM ammonium
bicarbonate, 90% ACN, pH 8.0) at a ﬂow rate of 0.25 ml/min, and eluates were collected into a 96-deep-well plate. Fractions were
consolidated into 12 tubes and vacuum dried followed by peptide desalting (stage tip) and LC-MS/MS analysis.
Peptide desalting (stage tip) for LC-MS/MS
Peptides were desalted prior to LC-MS analysis using solid phase extraction (stage tip). Brieﬂy, C18 Octadecyl HD solid phase
extraction disk (CDS Analytics, USA) was used to prepare stage tips in house. The matrix was activated with 100% ACN, followed
by washes with 70% ACN, 1% FA and H
2O, 1 % FA. Dried peptides were dissolved in H 2O, 1 % FA and passed through the C18
matrix. Peptides were washed twice with H 2O, 1 % FA and subsequently eluted into MS vials in two steps with 40% ACN, 1% FA
and 70% ACN, 1% FA. Peptides were vacuum tried and stored at -80 /C14C until analysis.
LC-MS/MS parameters
An Orbitrap Eclipse Tribrid Mass Spectrometer (Thermo) coupled with an Easy-nLC 1200 (Thermo) was used for proteomics mea-
surements. Of each fraction /C243mg of peptides dissolved in 5% ACN, 5% FA were loaded onto an in-house 100- mm capillary column
packed with 35 cm of Accucore 150 resin (2.6 mm,150 A˚ ). Alternatively, peptides were loaded on a PepMap EASY Spray 75- mm C18
column (Thermo, 250 mm, 2 mm,100 A˚ ). Fractions were analyzed twice except for primary human prostate epithelial cell samples.
Peptides were separated and analyzed using a 180-min gradient consisting of 2% - 23% ACN, 0.125% FA at 500 nl/min ﬂow
rate. A FAIMS Pro or FAIMS Pro Duo (Thermo) device was used for ﬁeld asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS)
separation of precursors,
106 and the device was operated with default settings and multiple compensation voltages (-40V/-60V/-
80V). Under each voltage, data-dependent acquisition mode was used for a mass range of m/z 400-1400 applying a top10 DDA
method. Resolution for MS1 was set at 120,000. Singly-charged ions were not further sequenced, and multiply-charged ions
were selected and subjected to fragmentation with standard automatic gain control (AGC) and 35% normalized collisional energy
(NCE) for MS2, with a dynamic exclusion window of 30 s. Quantiﬁcation of TMT reporter ions was performed using the multinotch
SPS-MS3 method
103 with 45% NCE for MS3, which is optimized for TMTpro-16/-18 reagents.
Database searching
Raw ﬁles were ﬁrst converted to mzXML, and searched using the Comet algorithm 107 on an in-house database search engine re-
ported previously.104 Database searching included all human (Homo Sapiens) entries from UniProt ( http://www.uniprot.org, down-
loaded 2021) and the reversed sequences as well as common contaminants (keratins, trypsin, etc.). Peptides were searched using
the following parameters: 25 ppm precursor mass tolerance; 1.0 Da product ion mass tolerance; fully tryptic digestion; up to three
missed cleavages; variable modiﬁcation: oxidation of methionine (+15.9949); static modiﬁcations: TMTpro (+304.2071) on lysine and
peptide N terminus. The false discovery rate (FDR) was controlled as described previously
104,108,109 to < 1% on peptide level for each
MS run using parameters such as XCorr, DCn, missed cleavages, peptide length, charge state and precursor mass accuracy. Then
protein-level FDR was also controlled to < 1%. Cysteine site localization was determined using the ModScore algorithm 110 where a
score of 19 corresponds to 99% conﬁdence in correct localization.
TMT reporter-based quantiﬁcation
TMT reporter ions were used for quantiﬁcation of peptide abundance. Each reporter ion was scanned using a 0.003 Da window, and
the most intense m/z was used. Isotopic impurities were corrected according to the manufacturer’s speciﬁcations, and signal-to-
noise ratio (S/N) was calculated. Peptides with summed S/N lower than 160 across 16 channels of each TMTpro16 plex (180 across
18 channels of each TMTpro18 plex or else 10*X across X channels) or isolation speciﬁcity lower than 0.5 were discarded.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e7
Resource

=== Page 28 ===
Data analysis
All data analyses were performed in R (Version 4.2.1) unless stated otherwise. Pearson correlations were either performed in
GraphPad Prism 10 or in R. The signiﬁcance of cysteine exposure was determined with two-tailed Student’s T-Tests for pairwise
comparison and the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure 26 to correct for multiple comparisons. Sites with accessibility changes >1.5
(constitutive zinc/metal binding: TPEN/EDTA) or <0.8 (inducible zinc binding: ZnCl 2) and p.adj < 0.05 (p < 0.05 for primary prostate
epithelial cells) were deﬁned as signiﬁcantly changed sites. Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP) analysis for
dimension reduction was performed for cysteine sites quantiﬁed across the entire dataset (no missing values) using the UMAP pack-
age.
111 Benchmarking: ZincBind27 dataset was kindly provided by Sam Ireland and Andrew Martin (March 2022). All human UniProt
data was retrieved from UniProt ( https://www.uniprot.org). UniProt Name, UniProt ID and all associated PDB information was ex-
tracted. Protein sequences were obtained from UniProt ( http://www.uniprot.org, downloaded 2021). The amino acid sequence for
each zinc-coordinating PDB protein chain in ZincBind was extracted using the ‘read.cif’ function of the ‘bio3d’ package 112 in R fol-
lowed by conversion into a single letter amino acid code. The UniProt and ZincBind datasets were matched to generate a list of all
protein IDs in UniProt matching PDBs in ZincBind. Cysteine numbering (position) between UniProt and PDB chains was matched by
alignment of UniProt and PDB chain sequences using the ‘msa’ (multiple sequence alignment) package 113 in R. Zinc binding cyste-
ines deﬁned in ZincBind and the corresponding cysteine position within UniProt sequences were extracted. The ZnCPT dataset was
benchmarked against the ZincBind dataset: 1) by mapping signiﬁcant cysteine accessibility changes against all proteins identiﬁed as
zinc binding in ZincBind. 2) by mapping signiﬁcant cysteine accessibility changes against cysteines identiﬁed as zinc binding in
ZincBind. Andreini et al.
5 and Passerini et al. 4 datasets annotating zinc binding proteins were obtained from Passerini et al. 4 (Addi-
tional ﬁle 3), as the original data from Andreini et al.5 is no longer accessible. The extracted RefSeq identiﬁers of proteins annotated as
zinc binding in Andreini et al. and/or Passerini et al. were mapped against the RefSeq identiﬁers of the human UniProt proteome
(2022, https://www.uniprot.org). Out of 3798 RefSeq identiﬁers 2943 identiﬁers were matched to the UniProt dataset and corre-
sponded to 2473 unique UniProt protein IDs. The remaining 855 RefSeq identiﬁers were manually blasted against the human prote-
ome (https://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) and identiﬁed matches were manually annotated with UniProt identiﬁers resulting in 431 match-
ing UniProt protein IDs. 85 RefSeq identiﬁers could not be conﬁdently matched to any UniProt protein IDs and were omitted from the
reference dataset used for benchmarking of ZnCPT. The ZnCPT dataset was benchmarked against the Andreini & Passerini datasets
by mapping proteins containing cysteines that exhibit signiﬁcant accessibility changes against all proteins annotated as zinc binding
in Andreini & Passerini. UniProt
: The human UniProt proteome including the following annotations: Cofactor, Zinc Finger, Keywords,
Drugbank Identiﬁers, Binding Sites was downloaded from the UniProt database (2024, https://www.uniprot.org). The DrugBank vo-
cabulary was downloaded from ( https:// https://www.go.drugbank.com/ ) and a list of DrugBank identiﬁers was generated that
contain ‘‘Zinc’’ in their common name. The UniProt proteome was ﬁltered for proteins matching either of the following criteria:
Cofactor annotated as zinc, zinc ﬁnger annotation, keyword annotation containing zinc, binding site annotated as zinc binding or
DrugBank identiﬁer which contains zinc in its common name. The ZnCPT dataset was benchmarked against the zinc-annotated
UniProt dataset by mapping proteins containing cysteines that exhibit signiﬁcant accessibility changes against all proteins with
zinc related annotation in UniProt. The enrichment of proteins/cysteines, annotated as zinc binding in the benchmarking datasets,
amongst those exhibiting signiﬁcant accessibility changes was calculated using Fisher’s exact tests. Overlap of different data-
sets/conditions were visualized as Euler diagrams using the ‘eulerr’ package in R. Protein subcellular localization data was down-
loaded from Human Proteome Atlas ( https://www.proteinatlas.org) based on data previously reported 37 and matched to the
ZnCPT dataset. Only proteins with a single annotated main location were considered. Nucleoplasm, nuclear speckles, nuclear
bodies, nuclear membrane, nucleus, nucleoli ﬁbrillar center, and nucleoli rim were consolidated into the nucleus annotation. Actin
ﬁlaments, centrosome, cytosol, cytoplasmic bodies, cytokinetic bridge, centriolar satellite, intermediate ﬁlaments, midbody, micro-
tubules, microtubule ends, midbody ring, mitotic chromosome, microtubule ends, mitotic spindle, and rods & rings were consoli-
dated into the cytoplasm annotation. Golgi apparatus and Golgi were consolidated into the Golgi annotation. Endosomes and lyso-
somes were consolidated into the EndoLysosomes annotation. Cell junctions, focal adhesion sites, and plasma membrane were
consolidated into the plasma membrane annotation. Distribution of proteins containing signiﬁcantly or non-signiﬁcantly changing
cysteines across subcellular compartments was assessed, and enrichment of proteins for the individual compartments was calcu-
lated using Fisher’s exact tests. For Pfam protein domain
analysis, the Pfam dataset for the human proteome (TaxID: 9606)114,115 was
retrieved from the InterPro website ( https://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro). Pfam domains were matched to the ZnCPT dataset based on
UniProt ID, the position of quantiﬁed cysteines and the start/end of the domain within the protein sequence. Pfam domains matching
at least three cysteines within ZnCPT were selected and Pfam enrichment for signiﬁcantly changed cysteines was calculated using
Fisher’s exact tests. The Benjamini-Hochberg procedure
26 was used to correct for multiple comparisons. GO Process and GO Func-
tion term datasets for the human proteome (TaxID: 9606) 116,117 were obtained from the QuickGo website ( https://www.ebi.ac.uk/
QuickGO/annotations). GO terms matching at least three proteins within ZnCPT were selected and GO term enrichment for proteins
containing signiﬁcantly changed cysteines was calculated using Fisher’s exact tests. The Benjamini-Hochberg procedure 26 was
used to correct for multiple comparisons. Zinc binding motifs (+/- 6 amino acids around the quantiﬁed cysteine) were extracted
and separated into signiﬁcantly changing and background motifs. Comprehensive motif analysis was perform using the MEME suite
(https://meme-suite.org/meme/) and the XSTREME118 motif analysis algorithm. Sequence logos of signiﬁcantly enriched motifs were
retrieved. The oximouse dataset 29 was obtained from the oximouse website ( https://oximouse.hms.harvard.edu). To match the ox-
imouse dataset to ZnCPT, mouse and human entire proteome sequences were retrieved from UniProt ( https://www.uniprot.org).
ll
OPEN ACCESS
e8 Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 29 ===
Human and mouse proteins were matched by their UniProt names, all selenocysteines (U) were replaced with cysteines (C), and se-
quences were aligned using the Biostrings package using the BLOSUM62 matrix. The site number of conserved cysteines was ex-
tracted and used to match cysteine oxidation values from the oximouse dataset to ZnCPT. Delta oxidation values for cysteines were
calculated for young and aged mice across all organs to map the redox regulatory potential for each cysteine. For KEGG pathway
enrichment analysis, the human KEGG pathway dataset mapped to KEGG gene identiﬁers was retrieved from the KEGG website
(https://rest.kegg.jp/).119 The KEGG pathways were mapped to a dataset containing UniProt IDs and UniProt names, by KEGG
gene identiﬁers retrieved from UniProt ( https://www.uniprot.org). From this, KEGG pathway annotations were mapped to ZnCPT.
KEGG pathways matching at least three proteins within ZnCPT were selected and KEGG pathway enrichment for proteins with signif-
icantly changed cysteines was calculated using Fisher’s exact tests. Multiple comparisons were corrected using the Benjamini-
Hochberg procedure. 26 The DepMap chronos cancer dependency dataset was retrieved from the DepMap portal (( https://
depmap.org/portal) Public 13Q2 release: CRISPR (DepMap Public 23Q2+Score, Chronos dataset). Z-scores were calculated for
each gene across all cell lines within the datasets. The DepMap dataset was mapped to ZnCPT by gene name. The Gene Expression
dataset was retrieved from the DepMap portal (( https://depmap.org/portal) Public 13Q2 release: Expression Public 23Q2). The can-
cer cell line proteome dataset92 was obtained from the Cell Model Passports website ( https://cellmodelpassports.sanger.ac.uk;
release:2022.12.14). The cancer cell line metabolome dataset93 was obtained from the DepMap portal ( https://depmap.org/
portal) Public 13Q2 release: Metabolomics dataset). Intensities for abundance of GSH, GSSG, and NADP were extracted for all can-
cer cell lines within the dataset. Protein structural data was retrieved from the RCSB protein databank ( https://www.rcsb.org)o r
AlphaFold44,120 (https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk). The AlphaFold structure for MTF1 (AF-Q14872-F1) and ADAM10 (AF-014672-F1-mod-
el_v4) was processed with the AlphaFill 45 web application (https://alphaﬁll.eu) to model zinc by similarity into the zinc ﬁnger domains
predicted by AlphaFold. Structural analysis including ﬁgure generation was performed in PyMOL (Version 2.3.1).
Analysis of the 3D structural coordination motif of zinc binding
Structural motif analyses were performed in Python (Version 3.7). The AlphaFold structures for human proteins were downloaded
from https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk. Each structure was cleaned by pruning the low conﬁdence regions (pLDDT < 70). Cysteine sites
identiﬁed by ZnCPT were mapped to the AF structures, and residues within 5 A ˚ of the sulfur atom of the cysteine were extracted
as the microenvironment for the cysteine of interest. The environment matrix for each cysteine was calculated by binning the occur-
rence of each amino acid type between 2 A˚ and 5 A˚ with a step of 0.5 A˚ . The proximity of each residue was measured by the shortest
distance between the sulfur atom and the residue heavy atoms. A combined matrix for all constitutive and inducible sites was gener-
ated. To cluster the structure environment, the sequence of amino acid was constructed based on the environmental matrix. The
sequence was ordered in proximity shells to the cysteine (i.e. sulfur atom). The ﬁrst shell was between 2 – 3 A ˚ , the second shell
was between 3 – 4 A˚ , and the ﬁnal shell is between 4 – 5A˚ . A special character ‘‘X’’ was inserted between each shell to indicate shell
structure. For example, the sequence ‘‘CCXFVXDW’’ indicated a disulﬁde bond in the ﬁrst shell because of short distance between
two CC, and two residues phenylalanine (F) and valine (V) in the second shell, and aspartate (D) and tryptophan (W) in the third shell.
The order of amino acid within each shell followed a predeﬁned order independent of primary sequence. The sequences were then
aligned using biopython globalxx algorithm without gap penalty. The alignment scores were converted to distance in terms of per-
centage of match residues, and the distance matrix was used to cluster the sites. The clustering was done using the scipy cluster
package with the ‘‘ward’’ algorithm. Uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) plots were generated using the python
umap package to project the distance matrix onto 2D.
Molecular modeling GSR zinc binding site
GSR crystal structure 2AAQ was used as the template for generating the molecular model initial structure, where the Au ion was re-
placed by Zn
2+. The nearby residues (residue 467 of chain A, residue 339, 58, 63 of chain B) were chosen at quantum mechanical
region. Other residues were treated classically. Energy optimization was carried out using B3LYP density functional model with
LACVP++** basis set by QM/MM module in the Schro ¨ dinger PyMOL software suite (Version 2.5).
Pairwise structural alignment
Pairwise structural alignments were performed using the alignment tool on the PCSB PDB website (https://www.rcsb.org/alignment).
PDB ﬁles and/or AlphaFold structures were selected and then aligned using the jFATCAT (rigid) alignment method. Aligned protein
structures were downloaded and visualized using PyMOL (Version 2.3.1).
In vitro hydroxylation of HIF1 a -ODD peptide by human recombinant EGLN1
To measure prolyl hydroxylation activity, recombinant human PHD2 (EGLN1) was purchased from Active Motif (USA, #81065) and HI-
F1a-ODD peptide (DLDLEALAPYIPADDDFQL) was purchased from GeneScript Biotech (USA). A mastermix reaction solution contain-
ing 5 mg/ml recombinant EGLN1, 20 mg/ml HIF1 a-ODD peptide, 5 mM KCl, 1.5 mM MgCl
2, 100 mM 2-Oxoglutarate, 100 mM
L-ascorbate and 50 mM ammonium iron(II) sulfate hexahydrate containing additionally indicated concentrations of ZnCl 2 was pre-
pared. The reaction was started upon addition of 2-Oxoglutarate. At indicated time points 10ml of the reaction solution were retrieved,
quenched by addition of 5% ACN 5% FA and stored at -20 /C14C until same-day analysis via LC-MS. Samples were separated on a
PLRP-S 1000A, 2.1 3 50 mm, 5 mm column (Agilent).The mobile phases were MS solvent A (H 2O, 2% FA) and B (ACN, 2 % FA) at
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e9
Resource

=== Page 30 ===
a ﬂow rate of 0.3 ml/min with the following gradient (the proportion of MS solvent B is given in %): 0–1.5 min: 15%, 1.5–3 min: 15–95%,
3–3.5 min: 95%, 3.5–4 min: 100-15%, 4–5 min: 15% at 60/C14C column temperature. For analysis a Q-Exactive HF-X mass spectrometer
(Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc) in positive ion mode was used with full scan analysis over a range of m/z 400–1600 m/z at 60,000 resolution,
1 3 10
5 AGC target and 50 ms maximum ion accumulation time. Top 5 multiply charged peptide ions were selected for MS/MS each
second and were analyzed using the following parameters: resolution 15,000; AGC target of 13 105; maximum ion transfer of 100 ms;
0.7 m/z isolation window; for HCD a normalized collision energy 34% was used; and dynamic exclusion of 10 s. HIF1a-ODD peptides
were quantiﬁed by determining the peak area of XICs (extracted ion chromatograms) of monoisotopic peaks (1067.5149 m/z HI-
F1a-ODD peptide, 1075.5124 m/z Hydroxy-HIF1 a-ODD peptide; 10 ppm mass error) using the Thermo Xcalibur software (v4.1).
Expression and puriﬁcation of human recombinant GSR
The N-terminal 6xHis-tagged construct of human GSR (wild-type and C134S mutant) (residues 44–522) was cloned into a pET-28a(+)
expression vector and purchased from GeneScript Biotech (USA). The N-terminal TwinStrep-tagged construct of human GSR (wild-
type and H511K mutant) (residues 44–522) was cloned into a pET-28a(+) expression vector and purchased from GeneScript Biotech
(USA). Proteins were overexpressed in E. coli BL21(DE3)(Life Technologies, USA) and puriﬁed using afﬁnity chromatography. Cells
were grown at 37
/C14C in TB medium (containing 50 mg/ml kanamycin) to an OD600 of 1, cooled to 16 /C14C and induced with 1 mM iso-
propyl-1-thio-D-galactopyranoside (IPTG) and grown over night. Alternatively, cells were grown in Overnight Express /C212 Auto-induc-
ible medium (containing 50 mg/ml kanamycin) to an OD600 of 1, cooled to 16/C14C and grown over night. Cells were harvested by centri-
fugation (6000 x g) and resuspended in ice-cold lysis buffer (100 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 5 mM TCEP (and 20 mM Imidazole for
6xHis-taged proteins), pH 8. Cells were lysed by sonication using a Q500 Sonicator (QSONICA Sonicators, USA) during 10x 30s on,
30s off cycles. The resulting lysate was centrifuged for 30 min (30,000 x g,4 /C14C) and the soluble fraction was collected. His-tagged :
The lysate was mixed head-over-head with Ni-NTA agarose resin (Thermo Scientiﬁc/C212 , USA) for 60 min at 4/C14C. Resin was transferred
to chromatography columns and washed with 15 column volumes of 100 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 5 mM TCEP, and 20 mM Imid-
azole, pH 8. Protein was eluted in 10 fractions with each 1.5 ml of 100 mM HEPES, 100 mM NaCl, 5 mM TCEP, and 250 mM Imidazole,
pH 8. TwinStrep-tagged
: The lysate was passed through chromatography columns containing 1.5 ml bed volume of Strep-Tactin /C226
Sepharose/C226 resin (IBA Lifesciences, Germany). Resin was washed with /C2420 resin volumes of 100 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 1 mM
TCEP, pH 8 and eluted in 7 fractions of 0.5 ml of 100 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaCl, 2.5 mM desthiobiotin, 1 mM TCEP, pH 7.5. All puriﬁed
protein: Fractions containing glutathione reductase were combined and desalted using 5 or 10 ml Zeba /C212 Spin desalting columns
(Thermo Scientiﬁc/C212 , USA) into 50 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM TCEP, pH 7.4. TwinStrep-tagged proteins were concentrated
using 30K MWCO concentrators to /C245 mg/ml (Thermo Scientiﬁc/C212 , USA). Protein was stored at -80 /C14C.
Expression of human BRD4 (333-460)
The human BRD4 plasmid was obtained from Addgene (Plasmid #38943). The N-terminal His tag construct of human BRD4 (333-460)
was overexpressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and puriﬁed using afﬁnity chromatography and size-exclusion chromatography. Brieﬂy,
cells were grown at 37
/C14C in TB medium in the presence of 50 mg/mL of kanamycin to an OD of 0.8, cooled to 17 /C14C, induced with
400 mM isopropyl-1-thio-D-galactopyranoside (IPTG), incubated overnight for 20 hrs at 17 /C14C, collected by centrifugation, and stored
at -80/C14C. Cell pellets were lysed in buffer A (25 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, and 1 mM TCEP) using Microﬂuidizer (Microﬂui-
dics), and the resulting lysate was centrifuged at 30,000g for 40 min. Ni-NTA beads (Qiagen) were mixed with cleared lysate for 45 min
and washed with buffer A. Beads were transferred to an FPLC-compatible column, and the bound protein was washed further with
buffer A for 10 column volumes and eluted with buffer B (25 mM HEPES, pH 7.5, 500 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol, 0.5 mM TCEP, and
400 mM imidazole). The N-terminal His was removed by incubating with TEV protease overnight at 4
/C14C. The His-tag cleaved sample
was concentrated and puriﬁed further using a Superdex 200 16/600 column (Cytiva) in buffer C containing 20 mM HEPES, pH 7.5,
200 mM NaCl, and 0.5 mM TCEP. Size exclusion chromatography fractions containing desired protein were pooled, concentrated
and stored in -80
/C14C.
Expression of human BRD4 (600-700)
The BRD4 construct was synthesized by cloning residues 600-700 into a pET28a based, pNIC28-Bsa4 expression vector (Addgene
Plasmid # 38943). BRD4 600-700 protein was overexpressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) and puriﬁed using afﬁnity chromatography. Cells
were grown at 37
/C14C in LB medium (containing 50 mg/ml kanamycin) to an OD600 of 0.6, cooled to 18 /C14C and induced with 0.5 mM
isopropyl-1-thio-D-galactopyranoside (IPTG) and grown over night. Cells were harvested by centrifugation (6000 x g) and resus-
pended in ice-cold lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 20 mM Imidazole, 0.5 mM TCEP, pH 7.6). Cells were lysed by soni-
cation using a Q500 Sonicator (QSONICA Sonicators, USA) during 10x 30s on, 30s off cycles. The resulting lysate was centrifuged for
1 hr (30,000 x g, 4
/C14C) and the soluble fraction was collected. The lysate was mixed head-over-head with Ni-NTA agarose resin
(Thermo Scientiﬁc/C212 , USA) for 60 min at 4/C14C. Resin was transferred to chromatography columns and washed with 15 column volumes
of 50 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 40 mM Imidazole, 0.5 mM TCEP, pH 7.6. Protein was eluted by on-column digestion with TEV pro-
tease overnight at 4 /C14C in SEC buffer (20 mM HEPES, 200 mM NaCl, 0.5 mM TCEP, pH 7.6) to ensure the capture of only cleaved
protein. The resulting elution was concentrated to 500 mL and injected over a buffer equilibrated Superdex 75 16/600 column (Cytiva).
Size exclusion chromatography fractions containing desired protein were pooled, concentrated and stored in -80 /C14C.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
e10 Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 31 ===
Isothermal Titration Calorimetry
For ITC, protein samples were ﬁltered (0.2 mM centrifugal ﬁlter) and were then further puriﬁed by size-exclusion chromatography on
Superdex 200 resin (GE Healthcare) using 25 mM HEPES, 150 mM NaCl, pH 7.5 as buffer. ZnCl 2 (Sigma) was dissolved in the same
buffer. ITC experiments were carried out in an Afﬁnity ITC instrument (TA Instruments) at 25 /C14C. The titrations were performed by in-
jecting 2.5 ml aliquots of 10x (concentration of protein) ZnCl 2 into the calorimeter cell containing a 185 ml solution of 40.38 mM wild-
type or 29.74 mM H511K glutathione reductase with a constant stirring speed at 125 rpm, and the heats were recorded. The data were
analyzed with the NanoAnalyze software using the independent ﬁt model. All the uncertainties were estimated by the native statistics
module with 10000 synthetic trials and a 95% conﬁdence level.
Cell Viability Assay
Cell viability was assessed using the CellTiter-Glo/C226 Luminescent Cell Viability Assay (Promega). Cells were seeded at a density of 7000
cells/ well (in 50 ml standard culture medium) into white 384-well ﬂat bottom, low ﬂange plates (Corning) and left to attach for at least 6
hours. The medium was exchanged for 25ml standard medium containing indicated concentrations of chemicals (6 biological replicates
per condition) for up to 24 hours. Cell viability was determined upon addition of 25 mlC e l l T i t e r - G l o/C226 reagent in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and luminescence was measured using a ClarioSTAR Plus plate reader (BMG Labtech, Germany).
Glutathione Reductase Activity Assay
Glutathione Reductase activity (recombinant human Glutathione Reductase (Bio-Techne) or homemade recombinant Glutathione
Reductase) was determined by measuring the consumption of NADPH in the presence of GSSG. The assay was performed in a
96-well format with a total assay volume of 200 ml per well and three technical replicates of each condition. The NADPH absorbance
was measured with a ClarioSTAR Plus microplate reader (BMG Labtech, Germany). All reagents were prepared in 100 mM Tris-HCl
pH 7.5. Wells were pre-plated with 20 ml of 10x ZnCl
2 or TPEN stocks, followed by the addition of 30 ml 100 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5. Then,
50 ml of recombinant Glutathione Reductase at a concentration of 1.2 mg/ml and 50 ml of 4 mM GSSG were added. The absorbance
was measured for 50 cycles at room temperature monitoring the absorbance at l = 340 and 380 nm in 45 second intervals. Following
5 cycles of baseline readings, 50 ml of 0.8 mM NADPH was rapidly added to each well and measurements were continued. The
maximum linear rate of NADPH oxidation and the DAbsorbance (340–380nm) were calculated. The NADPH concentration was deter-
mined using the extinction coefﬁcient ε340-380 = 4.81 mM -1cm-1.
Measurement of total GSH and GSSG in cells
The total (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione of cells was determined using the well-established glutathione recycling
assay.
98–100 Cells were seeded into 6-well plates at 5x10 5 cell/well the day before the assay (2.5x10 5 cell/well two days before
the assay (24-hour treatment)). Cells were treated for 5 or 24 hours with indicated concentrations of zinc pyrithione, pyrithione +
ZnCl2, or pyrithione alone. Following the treatment, cells were rapidly collected and lysed in 170 ml ice-cold 5 % 5-sulfosiacylic
acid (SSA) and stored on ice. The 6-well plates were processed on a plate-by-plate basis to ensure rapid quenching of the glutathione
redox state. Upon completion of cell lysis, extracts were cleared by centrifugation for 10 min (21.000 x g and 4 /C14C) and supernatants
were transferred into fresh Eppendorf tubes on ice. Protein pellets were soaked in 10ml of 20% SDS for 5 min and completed to 100ml
with 100 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.5 and proteins were dissolved by shaking (1500 rpm) at room temperature for 1 hour. The protein con-
centration was determined using a Pierce/C212 BCA assay kit (Thermo Scientiﬁc /C212 , USA). Total GSH levels
: Clariﬁed cell extracts were
diluted 1:3 in 5% SSA. GSH standards (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 mM) were prepared in 5 % SSA. Extracts and diluted samples were
plated at 10 ml/well into 96-well plates in duplicate. GSSG levels : GSH standards (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 20 mM) were prepared in 5 %
SSA. Reduced glutathione (GSH) was derivatized to only measure oxidized glutathione (GSSG) levels. For this, 60 ml of standards and
non-diluted extracts were transferred into fresh Eppendorf tubes. Samples were neutralized and derivatized by addition of 10 ml
derivatization mix (2.25 ml 2-vinyl pyridine + 2.75 ml of triethanolamine +5 mlH 2O) and incubated for 1 hour rotating head-over-
head in the dark at 4 /C14C. Then, samples were plated at 10 ml/well into 96-well plates in duplicate. Assay : Wells were completed
with 240 ml reaction buffer (all in 150 mM HEPES, 1 mM EDTA pH 7.5: 150 ml 0.4 mM NADPH, 40 ml buffer, 50 ml 3 mM DTNB).
The absorbance was measured for 35 cycles at room temperature monitoring the absorbance of TNB 2- at l = 412 nm in 35 second
intervals. Following 3 cycles of baseline readings, 50 ml of 0.8 mM NADPH in 150 mM HEPES, 1 mM EDTA pH 7.5 was rapidly added
to each well and measurements were continued. The linear rate of TNB 2- formation was calculated for standards and GSH[GSH Total]
or GSSG[GSSG] levels of samples were interpolated from the standard curves. Glutathione level calculations: [GSHFree] = [GSHTotal]–
2x[GSSG] | GSSG content (%) = 2x[GSSG]/ [GSH Total]*100.
Generation of stable overexpression cell lines
Glutathione reductase (GSR) (pLV[Exp]-EGFP:T2A:Puro-EF1A>hGSR[NM_000637.5]), S. thermophilus glutathione synthesizing
enzyme FLAG-GshF (pLV[Exp]-EGFP:T2A:Puro-EF1A>{GshF}) and mitochondria-targeted FLAG-MitoGshF (pLV[Exp]-EGFP:T2A:
Puro-EF1A>{Mito-GshF})
101 lentiviral expression vectors were purchased from VectorBuilder Inc. (China). The virus was produced
by Lenti-X/C212 293T cells (Takara Bio USA), transfected with lentiviral expression vector (330 ng), as well as pPAx (550 ng) and pMD2
(330 ng) constructs using PolyFect/C212 transfer reagent (GSR; Qiagen) or Lipofectamine/C212 3000 (GshF, MitoGshF, Thermo-Fisher Scien-
tiﬁc). For transduction, viral supernatant was passed through a 0.45mM syringe ﬁlter, Polybrene (10mg/ml; Santa Cruz Biotechnologies)
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e11
Resource

=== Page 32 ===
was added, and was transferred onto A549 or SKMES1 cells seeded into a 24-well plate (1-2 ml/well). This step was repeated the
following day. Cells were selected by addition of 2mg/ml Puromycin (Gibco) for 10 days, changing the medium daily. Following selection,
medium was replaced with standard culturing medium, a polyclonal fraction of cells was collected and GshF and MitoGshF overexpres-
sion was conﬁrmed by western blot (anti-FLAG). GSR overexpressing cells were diluted to a concentration of 0.5 cells/100mla n d1 0 0ml
were plated into 96-well plates to obtain single cell clones. GSR overexpression was conﬁrmed by western blot. Note that S.thermo-
philus GshF contained a C-terminal FLAG-tag whereas MitoGshF contained a double N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence
(MTS) consisting of L.brevis COX4 MTS and the H. sapiens ACO2 MTS, followed by an N-terminal FLAG-tag.
101
hGSR[GenBank: NM_000637.5]
ATGGCCCTGCTGCCCCGAGCCCTGAGCGCCGGCGCGGGACCGAGCTGGCGGCGGGCGGCGCGCGCCTTCCGAGGCTTCCTG
CTGCTTCTGCCCGAGCCCGCGGCCCTCACGCGCGCCCTCTCCCGTGCCATGGCCTGCAGGCAGGAGCCGCAGCCGCAGGGC
CCGCCGCCCGCTGCTGGCGCCGTGGCCTCCTATGACTACCTGGTGATCGGGGGCGGCTCGGGCGGGCTGGCCAGCGCGCGC
AGGGCGGCCGAGCTGGGTGCCAGGGCCGCCGTGGTGGAGAGCCACAAGCTGGGTGGCACTTGCGTGAATGTTGGATGTGTAC
CCAAAAAGGTAATGTGGAACACAGCTGTCCACTCTGAATTCATGCATGATCATGCTGATTATGGCTTTCCAAGTTGTGAGGGTAAAT
TCAATTGGCGTGTTATTAAGGAAAAGCGGGATGCCTATGTGAGCCGCCTGAATGCCATCTATCAAAACAATCTCACCAAGTCCCAT
ATAGAAATCATCCGTGGCCATGCAGCCTTCACGAGTGATCCCAAGCCCACAATAGAGGTCAGTGGGAAAAAGTACACCGCCCCA
CACATCCTGATCGCCACAGGTGGTATGCCCTCCACCCCTCATGAGAGCCAGATCCCCGGTGCCAGCTTAGGAATAACCAGCGAT
GGATTTTTTCAGCTGGAAGAATTGCCCGGCCGCAGCGTCATTGTTGGTGCAGGTTACATTGCTGTGGAGATGGCAGGGATCCTGT
CAGCCCTGGGTTCTAAGACATCACTGATGATACGGCATGATAAGGTACTTAGAAGTTTTGATTCAATGATCAGCACCAACTGCACG
GAGGAGCTGGAGAACGCTGGCGTGGAGGTGCTGAAGTTCTCCCAGGTCAAGGAGGTTAAAAAGACTTTGTCGGGCTTGGAAGTC
AGCATGGTTACTGCAGTTCCCGGTAGGCTACCAGTCATGACCATGATTCCAGATGTTGACTGCCTGCTCTGGGCCATTGGGCGG
GTCCCGAATACCAAGGACCTGAGTTTAAACAAACTGGGGATTCAAACCGATGACAAGGGTCATATCATCGTAGACGAATTCCAGA
ATACCAACGTCAAAGGCATCTATGCAGTTGGGGATGTATGTGGAAAAGCTCTTCTTACTCCAGTTGCAATAGCTGCTGGCCGAAAA
CTTGCCCATCGACTTTTTGAATATAAGGAAGATTCCAAATTAGATTATAACAACATCCCAACTGTGGTCTTCAGCCACCCCCCTATT
GGGACAGTGGGACTCACGGAAGATGAAGCCATTCATAAATATGGAATAGAAAATGTGAAGACCTATTCAACGAGCTTTACCCCGAT
GTATCACGCAGTTACCAAAAGGAAAACAAAATGTGTGATGAAAATGGTCTGTGCTAACAAGGAAGAAAAGGTGGTTGGGATCCATA
TGCAGGGACTTGGGTGTGATGAAATGCTGCAGGGTTTTGCTGTTGCAGTGAAGATGGGAGCAACGAAGGCAGACTTTGACAACAC
AGTCGCCATTCACCCTACCTCTTCAGAAGAGCTGGTCACACTTCGTTGA
S. thermophilus FLAG-GshF
ATGACCCTTAATCAGCTTCTCCAGAAGTTGGAGGCGACTTCCCCCATTCTCCAGGCGAACTTCGGGATAGAAAGGGAGTCATTGA
GGGTTGACCGCCAGGGTCAGCTGGTCCACACACCGCACCCCTCATGTCTGGGAGCCCGCAGTTTTCATCCTTACATACAAACCG
ACTTTTGTGAATTCCAAATGGAACTGATTACACCAGTAGCCAAAAGTACGACGGAGGCCCGACGCTTTCTTGGCGCGATAACTGAT
GTAGCAGGACGAAGCATTGCAACTGACGAGGTGCTGTGGCCATTGAGTATGCCACCACGACTTAAAGCCGAGGAAATTCAAGTA
GCGCAACTCGAGAACGACTTCGAAAGACATTATCGGAACTACTTGGCAGAGAAGTACGGCACCAAATTGCAGGCGATTAGTGGAA
TTCATTACAATATGGAACTTGGGAAGGACTTGGTTGAGGCGCTTTTTCAAGAGTCAGATCAGACTGACATGATCGCATTTAAAAACG
CTCTGTATCTCAAGCTCGCCCAGAACTATTTGAGGTATCGGTGGGTCATTACTTACCTGTTTGGAGCAAGTCCCATTGCAGAACAA
GGATTCTTTGACCAAGAAGTGCCGGAGCCTATGCGCTCTTTCCGCAACTCCGACCACGGCTACGTTAACAAGGAAGAGATACAGG
TAAGCTTTGTATCCCTTGAAGACTATGTCTCCGCGATCGAGACCTACATCGAGCAGGGTGACCTTATAGCCGAGAAAGAGTTTTAC
TCAGCCGTGCGCTTTAGAGGACAAAAAGTCAATCGCTCCTTCCTTGATAAGGGTATAACTTATCTGGAGTTCAGAAACTTTGACTTG
AACCCATTTGAGAGAATAGGCATCAGTCAAACCACTATGGATACCGTTCACTTGCTCATACTGGCCTTTCTCTGGTTGGATAGTCC
GGAAAACGTGGACCAGGCCCTTGCCCAGGGACACGCGCTTAACGAGAAAATAGCCCTCTCCCATCCATTGGAGCCCCTCCCTTC
AGAGGCCAAGACACAGGACATCGTGACCGCACTCGACCAGCTCGTACAGCACTTCGGATTGGGAGATTACCACCAGGATCTCGT
GAAACAAGTGAAAGCGGCGTTTGCTGATCCGAATCAAACCCTGTCAGCTCAACTTCTTCCTTATATTAAGGACAAGTCACTCGCAG
AATTCGCTCTCAATAAGGCACTCGCATATCATGACTATGACTGGACCGCTCACTACGCCCTTAAAGGTTACGAAGAAATGGAGCTC
AGTACGCAGATGCTGCTCTTTGATGCTATCCAGAAAGGAATACACTTCGAGATACTCGATGAGCAAGATCAGTTCTTGAAGCTGTG
GCATCAAGATCACGTAGAATATGTTAAAAACGGTAATATGACCAGCAAGGATAACTATGTAGTACCTCTCGCAATGGCCAACAAGA
CTGTTACTAAGAAAATTCTTGCTGACGCTGGGTTCCCTGTTCCGTCCGGGGACGAATTTACTAGCTTGGAGGAGGGACTGGCCTA
CTACCCGCTTATTAAAGATAAGCAAATTGTAGTAAAGCCAAAGAGCACGAATTTCGGCTTGGGTATCAGCATCTTCCAAGAACCCG
CCAGTCTCGACAATTATCAAAAAGCATTGGAAATAGCATTTGCGGAGGACACTAGTGTGCTCGTCGAAGAATTCATTCCAGGCACG
GAATACCGATTCTTCATTTTGGACGGACGCTGTGAGGCAGTCCTTTTGAGGGTAGCTGCCAATGTAATAGGGGACGGGAAACACA
CAATCAGAGAGTTGGTAGCGCAGAAAAACGCAAATCCCCTGCGCGGTAGGGATCATAGATCACCCTTGGAAATCATAGAGCTTGG
GGACATAGAGCAACTCATGCTGGCACAGCAGGGTTACACTCCAGATGACATCCTGCCAGAGGGTAAGAAAGTGAATTTGAGGCG
GAACAGCAATATTAGTACTGGGGGAGACTCCATAGACGTCACAGAAACAATGGATAGCTCTTATCAAGAACTTGCAGCAGCGATG
GCTACCAGTATGGGGGCATGGGCCTGTGGAGTTGATCTGATTATACCCGACGAAACGCAGATTGCCACAAAGGAAAATCCACATT
GCACGTGTATTGAACTTAACTTCAACCCCTCCATGTACATGCATACATACTGCGCTGAGGGGCCGGGGCAGGCAATTACAACCAA
AATACTCGACAAACTCTTCCCGGAGATCGTGGCCGGACAAACTGGAGGAAGCGGAGGAAGCGGAGGAAGCGATTACAAGGATG
ACGATGACAAGTAA
ll
OPEN ACCESS
e12 Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025
Resource

=== Page 33 ===
S. thermophilus FLAG-MitoGshF
ATGCTCGCTACAAGGGTCTTTAGCCTCGTCGGAAAGAGAGCTATCAGCACCTCCGTCTGCGTGAGAGCTCATATGGCGCCCTACA
GCCTACTGGTGACTCGGCTGCAGAAAGCTCTGGGTGTGCGGCAGTACCATGTGGCCTCAGTCCTGTGCGATTACAAGGATGACG
ATGACAAGGGAGGAAGCGGAGGAAGCGGAGGAAGCACCCTTAATCAGCTTCTCCAGAAGTTGGAGGCGACTTCCCCCATTCTCC
AGGCGAACTTCGGGATAGAAAGGGAGTCATTGAGGGTTGACCGCCAGGGTCAGCTGGTCCACACACCGCACCCCTCATGTCTG
GGAGCCCGCAGTTTTCATCCTTACATACAAACCGACTTTTGTGAATTCCAAATGGAACTGATTACACCAGTAGCCAAAAGTACGAC
GGAGGCCCGACGCTTTCTTGGCGCGATAACTGATGTAGCAGGACGAAGCATTGCAACTGACGAGGTGCTGTGGCCATTGAGTAT
GCCACCACGACTTAAAGCCGAGGAAATTCAAGTAGCGCAACTCGAGAACGACTTCGAAAGACATTATCGGAACTACTTGGCAGAG
AAGTACGGCACCAAATTGCAGGCGATTAGTGGAATTCATTACAATATGGAACTTGGGAAGGACTTGGTTGAGGCGCTTTTTCAAGA
GTCAGATCAGACTGACATGATCGCATTTAAAAACGCTCTGTATCTCAAGCTCGCCCAGAACTATTTGAGGTATCGGTGGGTCATTA
CTTACCTGTTTGGAGCAAGTCCCATTGCAGAACAAGGATTCTTTGACCAAGAAGTGCCGGAGCCTATGCGCTCTTTCCGCAACTC
CGACCACGGCTACGTTAACAAGGAAGAGATACAGGTAAGCTTTGTATCCCTTGAAGACTATGTCTCCGCGATCGAGACCTACATC
GAGCAGGGTGACCTTATAGCCGAGAAAGAGTTTTACTCAGCCGTGCGCTTTAGAGGACAAAAAGTCAATCGCTCCTTCCTTGATAA
GGGTATAACTTATCTGGAGTTCAGAAACTTTGACTTGAACCCATTTGAGAGAATAGGCATCAGTCAAACCACTATGGATACCGTTCA
CTTGCTCATACTGGCCTTTCTCTGGTTGGATAGTCCGGAAAACGTGGACCAGGCCCTTGCCCAGGGACACGCGCTTAACGAGAA
AATAGCCCTCTCCCATCCATTGGAGCCCCTCCCTTCAGAGGCCAAGACACAGGACATCGTGACCGCACTCGACCAGCTCGTACA
GCACTTCGGATTGGGAGATTACCACCAGGATCTCGTGAAACAAGTGAAAGCGGCGTTTGCTGATCCGAATCAAACCCTGTCAGCT
CAACTTCTTCCTTATATTAAGGACAAGTCACTCGCAGAATTCGCTCTCAATAAGGCACTCGCATATCATGACTATGACTGGACCGCT
CACTACGCCCTTAAAGGTTACGAAGAAATGGAGCTCAGTACGCAGATGCTGCTCTTTGATGCTATCCAGAAAGGAATACACTTCGA
GATACTCGATGAGCAAGATCAGTTCTTGAAGCTGTGGCATCAAGATCACGTAGAATATGTTAAAAACGGTAATATGACCAGCAAGG
ATAACTATGTAGTACCTCTCGCAATGGCCAACAAGACTGTTACTAAGAAAATTCTTGCTGACGCTGGGTTCCCTGTTCCGTCCGGG
GACGAATTTACTAGCTTGGAGGAGGGACTGGCCTACTACCCGCTTATTAAAGATAAGCAAATTGTAGTAAAGCCAAAGAGCACGAA
TTTCGGCTTGGGTATCAGCATCTTCCAAGAACCCGCCAGTCTCGACAATTATCAAAAAGCATTGGAAATAGCATTTGCGGAGGACA
CTAGTGTGCTCGTCGAAGAATTCATTCCAGGCACGGAATACCGATTCTTCATTTTGGACGGACGCTGTGAGGCAGTCCTTTTGAGG
GTAGCTGCCAATGTAATAGGGGACGGGAAACACACAATCAGAGAGTTGGTAGCGCAGAAAAACGCAAATCCCCTGCGCGGTAGG
GATCATAGATCACCCTTGGAAATCATAGAGCTTGGGGACATAGAGCAACTCATGCTGGCACAGCAGGGTTACACTCCAGATGACA
TCCTGCCAGAGGGTAAGAAAGTGAATTTGAGGCGGAACAGCAATATTAGTACTGGGGGAGACTCCATAGACGTCACAGAAACAAT
GGATAGCTCTTATCAAGAACTTGCAGCAGCGATGGCTACCAGTATGGGGGCATGGGCCTGTGGAGTTGATCTGATTATACCCGAC
GAAACGCAGATTGCCACAAAGGAAAATCCACATTGCACGTGTATTGAACTTAACTTCAACCCCTCCATGTACATGCATACATACTG
CGCTGAGGGGCCGGGGCAGGCAATTACAACCAAAATACTCGACAAACTCTTCCCGGAGATCGTGGCCGGACAAACTTAA
Isolation of mouse heart mitochondrial membranes
Mitochondrial isolation and membrane preparation were per formed as described previously with small adjustments.
121 Hearts
were excised from WT (C57BL/6J) mice (5-7 weeks of age) and immersed immediately in ice-cold STE buffer (250 mM sucrose,
10 mM Tris-HCl, 1 mM EGTA and 0.1% (w/v) fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA), pH 7.4 at 4 /C14C). All following steps were
carried out at 4 /C14C. The hearts were cleaned from connective and fat tissue, diced, washed, and then minced in an electronic tissue
mincer (Polytron PT 10-35 GT, low speed and short intervals to br eak the tissue into smaller pieces). Tissue lysate was then ho-
mogenized in /C2410 mL buffer per gram of tissue ten strokes of a Potter –Elvehjem homogenizer ﬁtted with a Teﬂon pestle at
/C241000 rpm. The homogenate was centrifuged (1000 3 g, 5 min) and transferred into a fresh tube. The pellet was resuspended
in STE buffer and both tubes were centrifuged (1,000 x g, 5 min). The supernatant was transferred into 2 ml Eppendorff tubes
and was recentrifuged to collect the crude mitochondria. The pe llets were suspended in STE buffer and centrifuged once again
(10,000 x g, 10 min). The pellets were resuspended in resuspension b uffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol, pH 7.4
at 4 /C14C) to a protein concentration of /C2410 mg/ml and stored at -80/C14C. Mitochondria suspensions were thawed on ice, sonicated
using a Q500 Sonicator (Qsonica, US 65% amplitude with three 5-s bursts of sonication interspersed by 30-s intervals on ice)
and centrifuged at 20,000 x g for 1 h. The pellets containing the mitochondrial membranes were homogenized in resuspension
b u f f e rt oc a .5m g/ m la n ds t o r e da t- 8 0
/C14C.
Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity assay
SDH activity was determined by measuring the loss of absorbance of 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol (DCIP) upon reduction by de-
cylubiquinone (dQ), which itself is reduced by SDH upon oxidation of succinate to fumarate (based on Hateﬁ and Stiggall 122). Assay
buffer (50 mM KPi buffer, pH 7.8) containing 100 mM dQ, 20 mM rotenone, 2.5 mM antimycin A, 150 mM DCIP was pre-plated at 100 ml
per well. Next, 10 ml of 20x ZnCl2 stocks in H2O were added to each well, and if indicated 20mM( 1 mM ﬁnal) of Atpenin A5, to determine
non-SDH dependent background reduction of dQ and DCIP. Subsequently, 70 ml of mouse heart mitochondrial membranes (10 mg/
well) were added into each well. The absorbance of DCIP was monitored for 30 min at room temperature, measuring the absorbance
at 600 nm. After two minutes, 20ml of 200 mM succinate (neutral pH) was added to start the reaction. The maximum linear rate of DCIP
reduction (loss of absorbance), representing the rate of succinate oxidation, was calculated and the rate of DCIP reduction was deter-
mined using the extinction coefﬁcient ε
600 =2 1m M -1cm-1.
ll
OPEN ACCESS
Cell 188, 832–850.e1–e15, February 6, 2025 e13
Resource

=== Page 34 ===
